Lighting


4. [57]LED Lighting


LED Lighting


The light-emitting diode (LED) is today's most energy-efficient and


rapidly developing lighting technology. Quality LED light bulbs last


longer, are more durable, and offer comparable or better light quality


than other types of lighting.


LED lightbulb


LED is a highly energy-efficient lighting technology, and has the


potential to fundamentally change the future of lighting in the United


incandescent lighting.


Widespread use of LED lighting has a large potential impact on energy


savings in the United States. By 2035, the majority of lighting


from LED lighting could top 569 TWh annually by 2035, equal to the


LED lighting is very different from other lighting types such as


* Light Source: LEDs are the size of a fleck of pepper, and can emit


light in a range of colors. A mix of red, green, and blue LEDs is


sometimes used to make white light.


* Direction: LEDs emit light in a specific direction, reducing the


need for reflectors and diffusers that can trap light. This feature


lights


and task lighting. With other types of lighting, the light must be


reflected to the desired direction and more than half of the light


* Lifetime: LED lighting products typically last much longer than


other lighting types.  A good quality LED bulb can last 3 to 5


LED lighting is available in a wide variety of home and industrial


Image related to LED Lighting


Industrial and Commercial Lighting


many industrial uses. LEDs are increasingly common in street lights,


parking garage lighting, walkway and other outdoor area lighting,


refrigerated case lighting, modular lighting, and task lighting.


Image related to LED Lighting


Under-Cabinet Lighting


Because LEDs are small and directional, they are ideal for lighting


there can be variation in light color and directionality, it is


Image related to LED Lighting


lights


lights are commonly used in residential kitchens,


lights installed in U.S. homes and businesses.


incandescent bulbs. It's important to read the Lighting Facts Label to


Image related to LED Lighting


LED Holiday Lights


decorative LED light strings such as Christmas tree lights are no


different. Not only do LED holiday lights consume less electricity,


* Safer: LEDs are much cooler than incandescent lights, reducing the


Lighting Choices to Save You Money


[59]Lumens and the Lighting Facts Label


Lighting and Daylighting Products and Services


lighting


lighting#main-content


lighting-choices-save-you-money


lighting


lighting-choices-save-you-money


lighting-facts-label


lighting-and-daylighting-products-and-services


