               o The optical image
               o Historical background
                    # Light rays, waves, and wavelets
                    # The pinhole camera
                    # Resolution and the Airy disk
--
                    # Lenses
                    # Mirrors
                    # Light sources
                    # Detectors
                    # Projection screens
--
               o Impulse response
               o Transfer function
          + Partially coherent light
               o Development and examples of the theory
               o The mutual coherence function
--
   Images & Videos
   Are invisibility cloaks possible in reality?
   Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better than
   pinholes
   Reflection of light law of refraction refractive indices and dispersive
   powers fibre optics refraction ray tracing Gauss theory of lenses
   telescopic rifle sight
--
   optics summary
   Related Questions
     * Why is light important for life on Earth?

   (BUTTON)
--
     * RMIT University Pressbooks - Optics 1: lenses and ocular devices
     * Physics LibreTexts - Optics
     * University of Colorado Boulder - Department of Physics - Light and
       Optics
     * Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research - Laser
--
     * CiteSeerX - Optical Information Processing: Past, Present, and
       Future
     * VIVA Open Publishing - Introduction to Petrology - Light and Optics
       Part 1: Electromagnetic Spectrum, Properties of Light
     * The National Academies Press - Harnessing Light: Optical Science
       and Engineering for the 21st Century - Overview

--
   Top Questions
     * What is optics?
     * What is light and how does it help us see things?
     * What is reflection, and how does a mirror work?
     * What is refraction, and why does a straw look bent in a glass of
       water?
     * What are lenses, and how do they change the direction of light?
     * How are optics used in eyeglasses, cameras, and telescopes?

--
   See all videos for this article

   optics, science concerned with the genesis and propagation of light,
   the changes that it undergoes and produces, and other phenomena closely
   associated with it. There are two major branches of optics, physical
   and geometrical. Physical optics deals primarily with the nature and
   properties of light itself. Geometrical optics has to do with the
   principles that govern the image-forming properties of lenses, mirrors,
   and other devices that make use of light. It also includes optical data
   processing, which involves the manipulation of the information content
   of an image formed by coherent optical systems.
--
   be developed, these were naturally called optical instruments, and the
   meaning of the term optics eventually became broadened to cover any
   application of light, even though the ultimate receiver is not the eye
   but a physical detector, such as a photographic plate or a television
   camera. In the 20th century optical methods came to be applied
--

   In the present article the image-forming properties of lenses, mirrors,
   and other devices that make use of light are considered. The wave and
   quantum nature of light, its velocity, wavelength, polarization,
   diffraction, and interference may be found in light. The analysis of
   light into its component colours by prisms and gratings forms the basis
   of the extensive field of spectroscopy, the principles of which are
   discussed in spectroscopy. For information about the reception of light
   by the retina of the eye and the interpretation of images by the brain,
   see eye, human.
--

   An optical image may be regarded as the apparent reproduction of an
   object by a lens or mirror system, employing light as a carrier. An
   entire image is generally produced simultaneously, as by the lens in a
   camera, but images may also be generated sequentially by point-by-point
--
   pictures across long distances in space. Nevertheless, the final
   detector of all images is invariably the human eye, and, whatever means
   is used to transmit and control the light, the final image must either
   be produced simultaneously or scanned so rapidly that the observer’s
   persistence of vision will give him the mental impression of a complete
--
   vision, something moved from the object to the eye or whether something
   reached out from the eye to the object. By the beginning of the 17th
   century, however, it was known that rays of light travel in straight
   lines, and in 1604 Johannes Kepler, a German astronomer, published a
   book on optics in which he postulated that an extended object could be
   regarded as a multitude of separate points, each point emitting rays of
   light in all directions. Some of these rays would enter a lens, by
   which they would be bent around and made to converge to a point, the
   “image” of the object point whence the rays originated. The lens of the
--
   by aberrations, diffraction, or even defocussing. In 1957 the Italian
   physicist Vasco Ronchi went the other way and defined an image as any
   recognizable nonuniformity in the light distribution over a surface
   such as a screen or film; the sharper the image, the greater the degree
   of nonuniformity. Today, the concept of an image often departs from
   Kepler’s idea that an extended object can be regarded as innumerable
   separate points of light, and it is sometimes more convenient to regard
   an image as being composed of overlapping patterns of varying
   frequencies and contrasts; hence, the quality of a lens can be
--
   information and communication theory, which is treated at length below.

Light rays, waves, and wavelets

   A single point of light, which may be a point in an extended object,
   emits light in the form of a continually expanding train of waves,
   spherical in shape and centred about the point of light. It is,
   however, often much more convenient to regard an object point as
   emitting fans of rays, the rays being straight lines everywhere
   perpendicular to the waves. When the light beam is refracted by a lens
   or reflected by a mirror, the curvature of the waves is changed, and
   the angular divergence of the ray bundle is similarly changed in such a
--
   perfect point, and the emerging waves are then not truly spherical.

   In 1690 Christiaan Huygens, a Dutch scientist, postulated that a light
   wave progresses because each point in it becomes the centre of a little
   wavelet travelling outward in all directions at the speed of light,
   each new wave being merely the envelope of all these expanding
   wavelets. When the wavelets reach the region outside the outermost rays
   of the light beam, they destroy each other by mutual interference
   wherever a crest of one wavelet falls upon a trough of another wavelet.
   Hence, in effect, no waves or wavelets are allowed to exist outside the
   geometrical light beam defined by the rays. The normal destruction of
   one wavelet by another, which serves to restrict the light energy to
   the region of the rectilinear ray paths, however, breaks down when the
   light beam strikes an opaque edge, for the edge then cuts off some of
   the interfering wavelets, allowing others to exist, which diverge
   slightly into the shadow area. This phenomenon is called diffraction,
   and it gives rise to a complicated fine structure at the edges of
   shadows and in optical images.
--
The pinhole camera

   Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better than
   pinholes
   Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better than
   pinholesLearn how a pinhole can focus light and about the advantages of
   lenses over pinholes. (BUTTON) (more)
   See all videos for this article
--
   the well-known pinhole camera. If the pinhole is large, the diverging
   geometrical pencil of rays leads to a blurred image, because each point
   in the object will be projected as a finite circular patch of light on
   the film. The spreading of the light at the boundary of a large pinhole
   by diffraction is slight. If the pinhole is made extremely small,
   however, the geometrical patch then becomes small, but the diffraction
   spreading is now great, leading once more to a blurred picture. There
--
   focal length to aperture. In this example, the f-number is 100/0.32 =
   310, designated f/310. Modern camera lenses have much greater
   apertures, in order to achieve light-gathering power, of around
   f/1.2–f/5.6.

--
   diffraction spreading becomes small indeed. The image of a point formed
   by a perfect lens is a minute pattern of concentric and progressively
   fainter rings of light surrounding a central dot, the whole structure
   being called the Airy disk after George Biddell Airy, an English
   astronomer, who first explained the phenomenon in 1834. The Airy disk
--
   the f-number of the lens expressed in microns (0.001 millimetre). The
   Airy disk of an f/4.5 lens is therefore about 0.0045 millimetre in
   diameter (ten times the wavelength of blue light). Nevertheless, the
   Airy disk formed by a telescope or microscope objective can be readily
   seen with a bright point source of light if a sufficiently high
   eyepiece magnification is used.

--
   The angular resolution of a telescope is equal to the angle subtended
   by the least resolvable image separation at the focal length of the
   objective, the light-gathering lens. This works out at about four and a
   half seconds of arc divided by the diameter of the objective in inches.

--

   As noted above, when a perfect lens forms an image of a point source of
   light, the emerging wave is a sphere centred about the image point. The
   optical paths from all points on the wave to the image are therefore
   equal, so that the expanding wavelets are all in phase (vibrating in
--
   are then not all equal. In such a case some wavelets will reach the
   image as a peak, some as a trough, and there will be much destructive
   interference leading to the formation of a sizable patch of light, much
   different from the minute Airy disk characteristic of a perfectly
   corrected lens. In 1879 Rayleigh studied the effects of phase
--
   will not be seriously degraded unless the path differences between one
   part of the wave and another exceed one-quarter of the wavelength of
   light. As this difference represents only 0.125 micron (5 × 10^−6
   inch), it is evident that an optical system must be designed and
   constructed with almost superhuman care if it is to give the best
--
Reflection

   Reflection of light (BUTTON)
   Reflection of lightIn the reflection of light, the angle of incidence
   is equal to the angle of reflection, measured from the normal (the line
   perpendicular to the point of impact). (BUTTON) (more)

   The use of polished mirrors for reflecting light has been known for
   thousands of years, and concave mirrors have long been used to form
   real images of distant objects. Indeed, Isaac Newton greatly preferred
--
   of a mirror, all large telescopes today are of this type.

   When a ray of light is reflected at a polished surface, the angle of
   reflection between ray and normal (the line at right angles to the
   surface) is exactly equal to the angle of incidence. It can be seen
--
   a concave mirror forms a real image. A plane mirror forms a virtual
   image of near objects, as in the familiar looking glass. Plane mirrors
   are often used in instruments to bend a beam of light into a different
   direction.

The law of refraction

   When a ray of light meets the surface of separation between two
   transparent media, it is sharply bent or refracted. Because rays are
   really only directions and have no physical existence, the passage of
   light waves through a surface must be considered if refraction is to be
   understood. Refraction effects are based on the fact that light travels
   more slowly in a denser medium. The ratio of the velocity of light in
   air to its velocity in the medium is called the refractive index of the
   medium for light of a particular colour or wavelength. The refractive
   index is higher for blue light than for light at the red end of the
   spectrum.
   law of refraction (BUTTON)
   law of refractionFigure 1: The law of refraction. Plane light wave at
   position AA′ in medium of index n and BB′ in medium of index n′ (see
   text). (BUTTON) (more)

   In Figure 1, AA′ represents a plane wave of light at the instant that
   A′ meets the plane refracting surface A′B separating two media having
   refractive indices n and n′, respectively. During the time taken by the
   light to travel from A to B in material n, light travels from A′ to B′
   in material of refractive index n′, forming the new wave BB′ in the
   second material, proceeding in direction BC. Hence, the relationship
--
   refracted waves, respectively.

   Returning now to the convention of considering the movement of light in
   terms of rays because entering and emerging rays are always
   perpendicular to the light waves they represent, angles I and I′ also
   denote the angles between the entering and emerging rays and the normal
   (perpendicular) line to the refracting surface at B.
--

   The difference between the refractive indices of a transparent material
   for a specific blue light and a specific red light is known as the
   dispersion of the material. The usual choices of blue and red lights
   are the so-called “F” and “C” lines of hydrogen in the solar spectrum,
   named by Fraunhofer, with wavelengths 4861 and 6563 angstroms (the
--
Total internal reflection

   When a ray of light emerges obliquely from glass into air, the angle of
   refraction between ray and normal is greater than the angle of
   incidence inside the glass, and at a sufficiently high obliquity the
--
   total internal reflection occurs, for there is no measurable loss if
   the glass surface is perfectly clean. Dirt or dust on the surface can
   cause a small loss of energy by scattering some light into the air.
   fibre optics (BUTTON)
   fibre opticsThe hair-thin fibres used in fibre optics. (BUTTON) (more)

   Light is totally internally reflected in many types of reflecting prism
   and in fibre optics, in which long fibres of high-index glass clad with
   a thin layer of lower index glass are assembled side-by-side in precise
   order. The light admitted into one end of each fibre is transmitted
   along it without loss by thousands of successive internal reflections
   at the interlayer between the glass and the cladding. Hence, an image
--
   photographed. Many modern medical instruments, such as cystoscopes and
   bronchoscopes, depend for their action on this principle. Single thick
   fibres (actually glass rods) are sometimes used to transmit light
   around corners to an otherwise inaccessible location.

--
   where the emerging paraxial ray crosses the axis is called the focal
   point F[2], the distance from P[2] to F[2] being the (posterior) focal
   length f′. A similar situation exists for a parallel beam of light
   entering from the right, giving the anterior principal point P[1], the
   anterior focal point F[1], and the front focal length f. For a lens in
--

   An optical system consists of a succession of elements, which may
   include lenses, mirrors, light sources, detectors, projection screens,
   reflecting prisms, dispersing devices, filters and thin films, and
   fibre-optics bundles.
--

   All optical systems have an aperture stop somewhere in the system to
   limit the diameter of the beams of light passing through the system
   from an object point. By analogy with the human eye, this limiting
   aperture stop is called the iris of the system, its images in the
--
   elements cut into the oblique beams and prevent the beams from being
   perfectly circular, and the pupils are then not fully filled with
   light. This effect is known as vignetting and leads to a reduction in
   illumination in the outer parts of the field of view.
   telescopic rifle sight (BUTTON)
--
   in the common rifle sight shown diagrammatically in Figure 6. Here the
   front lens A is the objective, forming an inverted image of the target
   on the cross wire or reticle at B. The light then proceeds to the relay
   lens C, which forms a second image, now erect, at D. Beyond this image
   is the eyepiece E to render the light parallel so that the image may be
   seen sharply by the observer. Unfortunately, the oblique beam from the
   objective will usually miss the relay lens, and so a field lens must be
--

   Mirrors are frequently used in optical systems. Plane mirrors may be
   employed to bend a beam of light in another direction, either for
   convenience or to yield an image reversed left for right if required.
   Curved mirrors, concave and convex, may be used in place of lenses as
--
   been tried, including one to support it on a bag of compressed air, the
   problem of completely eliminating mirror distortion remains unsolved. A
   metal mirror, if well ribbed on the back, may be lighter than a glass
   mirror and therefore easier to handle, but most metals are slightly
   flexible and require just as careful support as glass mirrors. Since
   temperature changes can also cause serious distortion in a mirror,
--
   possible.

Light sources

   Many types of optical instruments form images by natural light, but
   some, such as microscopes and projectors, require a source of
   artificial light. Tungsten filament lamps are the most common, but if a
   very bright source is required, a carbon or xenon arc is employed. For
   some applications, mercury or other gas discharge tubes are used; a
   laser beam is often employed in scientific applications. Laser light is
   brilliant, monochromatic, collimated (the rays are parallel), and
   coherent (the waves are all in step with each other), any or all of
--
   beyond it, have been developed. These include photoelectric cells of
   various kinds in which either a voltage or a resistance is modified by
   light falling on the device. Many new types of detectors are sensitive
   far into the infrared spectrum and are used to detect the heat radiated
   by a flame or other hot object. A number of image intensifiers and
--
   become common. An extreme example of electro-optics appears in some
   space cameras, in which the film is exposed, processed, and then
   scanned by a tiny point of light; the light passing through the film is
   picked up by a photocell and transmitted to Earth by radio, where it is
   made to control the brightness of another point of light scanning a
   second piece of film in exact synchronism with the scanning spot in the
   camera. The whole system thus produces a picture on Earth that is an
--
   Improved screen materials have been developed to increase the
   brightness of the picture to suit the particular shape of the
   auditorium. A screen covered with tiny beads tends to send the light
   back in the general direction of the projector, and is suitable for use
   at one end of a long, narrow auditorium. Another type of screen is
   covered with fine embossed vertical grooves; this tends to distribute
   the light in a horizontal band across the audience with little or no
   vertical spread. A real advantage of these highly reflective screens is
   that they tend to reflect ambient room light away from the viewer as by
   a mirror, so that the pictures appear almost as bright and clear by day
   as in a darkened room.
--

   Reflecting prisms are pieces of glass bounded by plane surfaces set at
   carefully specified angles. Some of these surfaces transmit light, some
   reflect light, while some serve both functions in succession. A prism
   is thus an assembly of plane reflectors at relatively fixed angles,
   which are traversed in succession by a beam of light.
   Porro prism (BUTTON)
   Porro prismFigure 7: Porro prism. (BUTTON) (more)
--
   The simplest prism is a triangular block of glass with two faces at
   right angles and one at an angle of 45°. The face at 45° deflects a
   beam of light through a right angle. The common Porro prism used in a
   pair of binoculars contains four 45° reflecting surfaces, two to
   reverse the beam direction in the vertical plane and two in the
--
   Prisms containing a semireflecting, semitransmitting surface are known
   as beam splitters and as such have many uses. An important application
   is found in some colour television cameras, in which the light from the
   lens is divided by two beam splitters in succession to form red, green,
   and blue images on the faces of three image tubes in the camera.
--

   There are two forms of dispersing element used to spread out the
   constituent colours of a beam of light into a “spectrum,” namely a
   prism and a grating. The prism, known to Newton, is the older; it
   separates the colours of the spectrum because the refractive index of
   the glass is lowest for red light and progressively increases through
   the yellow and green to the blue, where it is highest. Prism
   spectroscopes and spectrographs are made in a variety of forms and
--
   having many thousands of fine parallel grooves to the inch. It
   separates the colours of the spectrum by a process of diffraction. Each
   groove diffracts, or scatters, light in all directions, and in the case
   of light of one particular wavelength, there will be one direction in
   which the light wave from one groove lags behind the light wave from
   the next groove by precisely one or more whole wavelengths. This
   results in a strong beam of diffracted light in that direction and
   darkness in all other directions. Since each spectral colour
   corresponds to a different wavelength, the grating spreads out the
--

   A colour filter is a sheet of transparent material that modifies a
   light beam by selective absorption of some colours in relation to
   others. A neutral filter absorbs all wavelengths equally and merely
   serves to reduce the intensity of a beam of light without changing its
   colour.

--
   gelatin, and in some cases glass cells filled with liquid have been
   used. Since World War II, another type of filter depending on the
   interference of light has been developed in which one or more metallic
   or other types of films of controlled thickness have been deposited on
   a glass plate, the layers being so thin as to cause selective
--
   instead of being absorbed.

   Polarizing filters have the property of transmitting light that
   vibrates in one direction while absorbing light that vibrates in a
   perpendicular direction. These filters are used extensively in
   scientific instruments. In sunglasses and when placed over a camera
--

   optical fibre (BUTTON)
   optical fibreLight ray passing through an optical fibre. (BUTTON)
   (more)

   As noted earlier, a thin rod or fibre of glass or other transparent
   material transmits light by repeated internal reflections, even when
   the rod is somewhat curved. An ordered bundle of rods or fibres is thus
   capable of taking an image projected upon one end of the bundle and
--
   save weight, each ring being a portion of what would normally be a
   continuous spherical surface but flattened out. On a large scale,
   Fresnel lenses have been used in lighthouses, floodlights, and traffic
   signals, and as cylindrical ship’s lanterns. With fine steps a few
   thousandths of an inch wide, molded plastic Fresnel lenses are often
--
   source, lying along the lens axis; for this reason they are commonly
   referred to as axicons. They have been used to produce a straight line
   of light in space for aligning machines and shafting, but since about
   1965 the beam from a gas laser has generally been used instead.

--

   If a lens were perfect and the object were a single point of
   monochromatic light, then, as noted above, the light wave emerging from
   the lens would be a portion of a sphere centred about the ideal image
   point, lying in the paraxial image plane at a height above the axis
   given by the Lagrange theorem. In practice, however, this condition is
   most unlikely to occur; it is much more probable that the emerging wave
   will depart slightly from a perfect sphere, the departure varying from
   point to point over the lens aperture. This departure is extremely
   small, being of the order of the wavelength of light that is only half
   a micron, so it would be impossible to show this departure on a
   drawing. It can be represented mathematically, however, in the
--
   times the minor axis. The images formed by all the smaller zones of the
   lens fit into this ellipse and fill it out with a uniform intensity of
   light. If the image plane is moved along the axis by a distance L, as
   in focussing a camera, then, at L = 2f ^2h[0]′^2S[3], the ellipse
   shrinks to a radial focal line (R). Twice this displacement yields a
--
   surface of the Sun down to about 3 × 10^−6 candle per square centimetre
   (3 × 10^−6 stilb) for the luminous paint on a watch dial. Ordinary
   outdoor scenes in daylight have an average luminance of several hundred
   candles per square foot. The quantity of light flux flowing out from a
   source is measured in lumens, the lumen being defined as the amount of
   flux radiated by a small “point” source of one candle power into a cone
   having a solid angle of one steradian. When light falls upon a surface
   it produces illumination (i.e., illuminance), the usual measure of
   illuminance being the foot-candle, which is one lumen falling on each
--
   It is often important to be able to calculate the brightness of an
   image formed by an optical system, because photographic emulsions and
   other light receptors cannot respond satisfactorily if the light level
   is too low. The problem is to relate the luminance of an object with
   the illuminance in the image, knowing the transmittance and aperture of
   the optical system. A small area A of a plane object having a luminance
   of B candles per square unit will have a normal intensity of AB
   candles. This source radiates light into a cone of semi-angle U,
   limited, for example, by the rim of a lens. The light flux (F) entering
   the cone can be found by integration to be Equation.

--
   often important. In the absence of any lens, the small plane source
   already considered radiates in a direction inclined at an angle ϕ to
   the axis with an intensity AB cos ϕ. This light has to travel farther
   than the axial light to reach a screen, and then it strikes the screen
   at another angle ϕ. The net result is that the oblique illumination on
   the screen is smaller than the axial illumination by the factor cos^4
--

   The same law can be applied to determine the oblique illumination due
   to a lens, assuming a uniform extended diffusing source of light on the
   other side of the lens. In this case, however, the exit pupil will not
   in general be a perfect circle because of possible distortion of the
--
   telescope, can possibly make anything appear brighter than when viewed
   directly. To be sure, a telescope having a large objective lens accepts
   more light from an object in proportion to the area of the lens
   aperture, but it magnifies the image area in the same proportion; so
   the increased light is spread over an increased area of the retina, and
   the illuminance remains unchanged. Actually, the telescopic view is
   always dimmer than the direct view because of light losses in the
   telescope due to glass absorption and surface reflections and because
   the exit pupil of the telescope may be smaller than the pupil of the
--
   The case of a star being observed through a telescope is quite
   different, because no degree of magnification can possibly make a star
   appear as anything other than a point of light. Hence, star images
   appear brighter in proportion to the area of the telescope objective
   (assuming that the exit pupil is larger than the eye pupil), and the
