   By James Lasdun
   April 22, 2019
   A camera on a tripod at the Northern Lights.
   A camera on a tripod, set for a five-second exposure, takes in far more
   light than the human eye does when it looks at something, and
   consequently it produces a more vivid image.Photograph by Joakim
   Eskildsen / Institute for The New Yorker
--
   of Oslo to hear a lecture by the physicist Kristian Birkeland, who
   believed that he had unlocked the secrets of the aurora borealis, also
   known as the northern lights. Birkeland planned to demonstrate his
   theory with the aid of a specially constructed device: a brass-plated
   magnetic sphere, called a terrella, suspended inside a vacuum chamber
--
   heated, it would shoot cathode rays across the chamber toward the
   sphere. If all went well, the rays would interact with the sphere’s
   magnetic field, producing eerie flashes of light that replicated, in
   miniature, the aurora borealis.

--
   hopelessly inadequate grasp of theoretical physics. He died in 1917,
   and it wasn’t until the nineteen-sixties that satellite data proved his
   hypothesis to be correct. The lights are caused by high-velocity solar
   particles—the “solar wind,” as it came to be called—interacting with
   the Earth’s magnetic field and atmosphere.
--
   Birkeland remains underappreciated, but his imprint can be felt in the
   mixture of engineering wizardry and primal enchantment that is fuelling
   a touristic boom in countries where the northern lights appear. As I
   discovered on a trip to the Arctic in February, the glow of an aurora
   is sometimes difficult to perceive with the naked eye, and travellers
   often must engage in a form of technologically enhanced rapture.

   The best chances of seeing the lights are in the elliptical area known
   as the Auroral Oval, which is centered on geomagnetic north. The
   Earth’s magnetic field becomes almost perpendicular to its surface
--
   the much Instagrammed original, in Kakslauttanen, having fewer igloos
   and no Santa’s Home on the compound. I arrived late, exhausted from the
   knock-on effects of a cancelled flight. The hotel’s twenty-eight Aurora
   Cabins, set around a large reindeer paddock, looked like quaint log
   huts from the front, with twenty inches of moonlit snow on the eaves.
--
   and a complimentary drinks tray arranged below, like the furnishings of
   a tastefully debauched starship. Slipping under a reindeer-fur
   coverlet, I found myself facing the first conundrum of northern-lights
   tourism, which is that the more comfortable your viewing situation the
   more likely you are to be insensate when the lights appear. I was eager
   to see them, naturally, but not obsessed. I had a whole week, and, from
   what I’d read, at the time of my visit there were good odds for a
--
   You can be woken in the middle of the night if you wish—and there are
   apps that will rouse you at the right moment—but you can’t do anything
   about cloudy skies or daylight. (The phenomenon that produces the
   lights can occur at any hour.) For the tourist, the question arises:
   what do you do when there’s no prospect of seeing the lights, which is
   much of the time? The answer is activities, although “safari” is the
   perversely tropical term of choice: you can go on a reindeer safari, a
--
   me was a German couple, who seemed serious about the fishing, and a
   Malaysian family, with a young daughter, who’d come to Finland because
   the lights were on their bucket list—a term that has gone global.
   Montes showed us how to drill holes with an auger, and baited our hooks
   with plastic worms. (He’d planned to use real ones, but they had frozen
--
   to take photographs.

   I asked Montes what role social media had played in northern-lights
   tourism, and he gave an exasperated laugh. The Ivalo hotel was
   constantly being approached by YouTubers and Instagram influencers who
--
   and natural phenomena. “The image of those igloos was suddenly
   everywhere,” Montes said. We were nearing the low point in the solar
   cycle now, he noted, though he assured me that the lights could still
   be thrilling, adding, “You just have to be lucky.”

--
   Oxygen emits a greenish hue and, occasionally, red; nitrogen emits
   violet and blue. In this case, the green turned out to be emitted by a
   light on the thermostat—its glow was reflected in the glass dome.
   Nevertheless, the sky had cleared, and the stars glittered promisingly
   above the snow-gloved spruce trees. I stared up for a while. Gazing at
   the sky at 3 a.m., however, in the hope of being granted a vision of
   dancing emerald lights is an activity that quickly starts to feel
   absurd, even delusional, and I soon passed out again. In the morning, I
   learned that I hadn’t missed anything.
--

   I went a bit farther north, to the vast frozen lake of Inari, where the
   lack of light pollution supposedly raises the chances of seeing the
   lights. Here, as everywhere, my hotel was packed: tour buses and
   S.U.V.s lined the parking lot. Guests in puffer jackets were riding
   fatbikes on the ice. Inside, at the buffet, they piled plates with
--
   tones of Home Counties English. Those came from a British couple,
   recent retirees from Surrey who were checking things off their bucket
   list. A safari in Zambia would follow the northern lights. They’d been
   in Inari for four nights, and had seen a faint glow one evening, after
   being roused by the hotel’s Aurora Alert. It hadn’t impressed them.
--
   indicating higher chances of seeing an aurora.

   A smudge of light appeared to the west, and we looked at our guide
   hopefully, but he shook his head: it was just snowmobile headlights
   reflected by clouds. Someone asked him what it felt like to see a truly
   powerful display, and he replied that it was “a spiritual experience.”
--
   get this flow of emotion.” It seemed like a good answer. It certainly
   accounted for a vague feeling I’d had in my glass igloo, which was that
   even if I did see the lights there’d be something sad and incomplete
   about not having anyone with me to share the experience. I’d been with
   an old friend when I helicoptered into the Grand Canyon. My son was
--
   continued on our way, both of us badly shaken.
   Image may contain Nature Outdoors Ice Mountain Human Person and Snow
   The northern lights can occur at any hour. For the tourist, the
   question arises: what do you do when there’s no prospect of seeing the
   lights, which is much of the time?Photograph by Joakim Eskildsen /
   Institute for The New Yorker

--
   impossible not to read judgment in its blank expression.

   Nordic folklore tends to view the northern lights as a not entirely
   benign phenomenon. Sámi mythology, in particular, invests them with
   highly equivocal powers. They can predict the weather, but they can
--
   so at your peril. As I stood on the airport curb, wondering what to do,
   it struck me that the aurora industry was a kind of elaborate whistling
   for the lights, with all the folly and hubris that this entailed. It
   sold itself as a romance with nature at its most magical, but it was
   premised on a comprehensive battle against nature. Its imagery of cozy
--
   a call on my behalf, and after a long twenty minutes an airport worker
   appeared and opened the doors. He laughed at my story, telling me that
   I’d arrived far too early for my afternoon flight. Two hours later,
   just before takeoff, other passengers began strolling in—blasé locals
   in T-shirts and sneakers.
--
   dioramas of trapped foxes and hunters clubbing baby seals. I took a
   dogsled safari, and guided Siberian huskies on a wobbly but
   exhilarating ten-mile dash, by moonlight, across stunning upland fells.
   In every one of Tromsø’s hotel lobbies, screens glowed with images of
   the lights.

   I’d been advised to try looking for them from the water, and went out
--
   we soon gave up craning our necks and chatted about the aurora craze
   instead. Everyone seems to have a different origin story. The skipper
   attributed the boom to a 2008 BBC show on the lights, featuring Joanna
   Lumley. As he put it, “There was before Joanna Lumley, and there was
   after.”
--
   green.

   I met with Skogli in Tromsø. He is a slight, unassuming man in his
   fifties, with an impish way of deflecting questions about his
   post-Lumley celebrity clients (Brian May, of Queen, is among them).
   Skogli grew up in a small village where elders spoke the Sámi language
   and children hid from the lights, fearing cosmic abduction. An evening
   outing with a photographer friend in the fall of 2003 coincided with a
   series of unusually intense solar storms, and the spectacle awakened
   Skogli to the lights’ glory. “Mostly, you just see green,” he told me.
   “But you saw all the other colors that night. The snow was colored
   red.” He was also awakened to the lights’ commercial potential. “The
   northern lights wasn’t a product at that time,” he recalled. “But
   they’re one of the purest wonders of the world.” Moreover, the lights
   have the advantage of not being affected by global warming. As Skogli
   put it, “We can’t do anything to spoil them!”
--
   He set up a photography-tour company that pioneered the idea of the
   Aurora Chase: you’re driven around for six or more hours in pursuit of
   favorable conditions for viewing the lights. Every fjord and fell has
   its own microclimate, and so in theory there’s always a chance of
   finding clear skies somewhere. After the Lumley film aired, Skogli
--
   We discussed why the aurora often looks so much better in photographs.
   He explained that a camera on a tripod, set for a five-second exposure,
   takes in far more light than the human eye does when it looks at
   something, and consequently it produces a more vivid image. A camera
   can turn even relatively weak displays into dramatic pictures—and these
--
   discussion on the subject within the tourism industry, without success.
   In a rare departure from diplomatic geniality, he dismissed most
   Instagram photos of the lights as junk—“digitally colorized files to
   produce likes.”

--
   primitive than my other accommodations, I’d signed up for a night with
   a Finnish company that takes you out to a “wilderness camp” and leaves
   you alone until morning. That night had come around, and I was slightly
   regretting my plan. I had no idea what to expect, but various scenarios
   had begun filling the void, mostly turning on the idea of abandonment
--
   wind had also risen, driving thick clouds straight toward it. A tense
   couple of minutes followed, in which we seemed to be watching an
   elemental standoff between darkness and light. For a few moments, the
   green bar was surrounded by tinges of violet: the effect of atmospheric
   nitrogen complementing that of the green-glowing oxygen. But the clouds
--
     __________________________________________________________________

   I could now say truthfully that I’d seen the northern lights, and I was
   happy, though my happiness had more to do with relief—mission
   accomplished—than with joy. It had been a very minor spillage of the
--
   documentary status of such images. Do they memorialize my evening, or
   the camera’s? The question goes to the heart of what I was beginning to
   think of as the second conundrum of northern-lights tourism: its
   seemingly inextricable incorporation of digital technology into human
   sensory experience.
--
   major display. When an industry is focussed so determinedly on the
   commodity of wonderment, it spurs thoughts of resistance—at least, it
   does in me. Moreover, my knowledge that the lights were merely an
   effect of physical forces—and not, say, the souls of stillborn babies,
   or reflections of the armor of the Valkyries—would surely limit my
--
   coach driver mutter, “Not the best weather outlook tonight.” The
   prospect of spending the next six hours driving around with little hope
   of seeing the lights was deeply unenticing. I was about to bail on the
   adventure when a burly Norseman barked out my name from his roster. I
   meekly boarded his sleek black van.
--
   things. After a moment, an oblique greenish bar like the one I’d seen
   the night before became visible. It grew brighter and denser, then
   contracted into an oval of emerald light. People chattered excitedly. I
   was about to warn them not to get too carried away when a streak of
   brilliant green shot out of the oval, at high speed, and zoomed over
   our tipped-back heads, corkscrewing across the sky. I almost toppled
   over while following its trajectory. The green light formed several
   tentacles, which twisted and writhed together and looped in circles.
   Astonishment was proclaimed in a half-dozen languages. The circles
--
   James Lasdun is the author of several books of fiction and nonfiction.
   His novel “Afternoon of a Faun” was published in 2019.
   More:ScandinaviaAurora BorealisNorthern Lights

   Read More
--
   Letter from Alaska
   Song of the Earth
   Northern Lights
   Books
   Northern Lights
   Inside the Minds of the New Crossword Constructors
   Video
