[115]Seasonal affective disorder treatment: Choosing a light box


Seasonal affective disorder treatment: Choosing a light box


Light therapy boxes can offer an effective treatment for seasonal


affective disorder. Features such as light intensity, safety, cost and


typically occurs each year during fall and winter. Use of a light box


can offer relief. But for some people, light therapy may be more


Light boxes are designed to deliver a therapeutic dose of bright light


to treat symptoms of SAD. There are many different types of light


boxes. All light boxes for SAD treatment are designed do the same


using a light box. If you're experiencing both SAD and bipolar


disorder, the advisability and timing of using a light box should be


too fast or using the light box for too long each time may induce manic


starting light therapy.


Understanding a light box


A light therapy box mimics outdoor light. It's thought that this type


of light may cause a chemical change in the brain that lifts your mood


Generally, the light box should:


* Provide an exposure to 10,000 lux of light


* Produce as little UV light as possible


Typical recommendations include using the light box:


* With eyes open, but not looking directly at the light


Light boxes aren't regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)


You can buy a light box without a prescription, but it's best to use it


specific light box. Most health insurance plans don't cover the cost.


Here are some questions to think about when buying a light box for


depression. Some light therapy lamps are designed for skin


produce ultraviolet (UV) light and could damage your eyes if used


* How bright is it? Light boxes produce different intensities of


light. Brighter boxes will require less time to use each day,


the recommended intensity of light is 10,000 lux.


* How much UV light does it release? Light boxes for SAD should be


designed to filter out most or all UV light. Contact the


* Can it cause eye damage? Some light boxes include features designed


to protect the eyes. Make sure the light box filters out most or


all UV light to avoid damaging your eyes. Ask your eye specialist


for advice on choosing a light box if you have eye problems such as


* Is it the style you need? Light boxes come in different shapes and


others are small and rectangular. Smaller light boxes are more


winter. The effectiveness of a light box depends on daily use, so


to place your light box and what you might do during its use, such


instructions, so you receive the right amount of light at the


Talk to your health care provider about light box options and


lighted below and resubmit the form.


3. Bais B, et al. Light therapy for mood disorders. In: Handbook of


treatment of depression: Physical characteristics of emitted light.


2. [180]Seasonal affective disorder treatment Choosing a light box


light+box


