A camera on a tripod at the Northern Lights.


light than the human eye does when it looks at something, and


known as the northern lights. Birkeland planned to demonstrate his


magnetic field, producing eerie flashes of light that replicated, in


hypothesis to be correct. The lights are caused by high-velocity solar


a touristic boom in countries where the northern lights appear. As I


The best chances of seeing the lights are in the elliptical area known


light. The hotel’s twenty-eight Aurora


lights


more likely you are to be insensate when the lights appear. I was eager


light. (The phenomenon that produces the


lights can occur at any hour.) For the tourist, the question arises:


what do you do when there’s no prospect of seeing the lights, which is


the lights were on their bucket list—a term that has gone global.


lights


solar cycle now, he noted, though he assured me that the lights could


light on the thermostat—its glow was reflected in the glass dome.


dancing emerald lights is an activity that quickly starts to feel


lack of light pollution supposedly raises the chances of seeing the


lights. Here, as everywhere, my hotel was packed: tour buses and


list. A safari in Zambia would follow the northern lights. They’d been


A smudge of light appeared to the west, and we looked at our guide


lights


even if I did see the lights there’d be something sad and incomplete


The northern lights can occur at any hour. For the tourist, the


lights, which is much of the time?Photograph by Joakim Eskildsen /


Nordic folklore tends to view the northern lights as a not entirely


for the lights, with all the folly and hubris that this entailed. It


light. Two hours later,


light, across stunning upland fells.


the lights.


attributed the boom to a [24]2008 BBC show on the lights, featuring


light, unassuming man in his


and children hid from the lights, fearing cosmic abduction. An evening


Skogli to the lights’ glory. “Mostly, you just see green,” he told me.


red.” He was also awakened to the lights’ commercial potential. “The


northern lights wasn’t a product at that time,” he recalled. “But


they’re one of the purest wonders of the world.” Moreover, the lights


favorable conditions for viewing the lights. Every fjord and fell has


takes in far more light than the human eye does when it looks at


Instagram photos of the lights as junk—“digitally colorized files to


lightly


elemental standoff between darkness and light. For a few moments, the


I could now say truthfully that I’d seen the northern lights, and I was


lights tourism: its


does in me. Moreover, my knowledge that the lights were merely an


of seeing the lights was deeply unenticing. I was about to bail on the


contracted into an oval of emerald light. People chattered excitedly. I


over while following its trajectory. The green light formed several


More:[29]Scandinavia[30]Aurora Borealis[31]Northern Lights


Northern Lights


Northern Lights


lights


lights-4


lights-4


