    1. Energy Saver
    2. Renewables & Electricity
    3. Lighting
    4. LED Lighting

LED Lighting

   The light-emitting diode (LED) is today's most energy-efficient and
   rapidly developing lighting technology. Quality LED light bulbs last
   longer, are more durable, and offer comparable or better light quality
   than other types of lighting.
   LED lightbulb

Energy Savings

   LED is a highly energy-efficient lighting technology, and has the
   potential to fundamentally change the future of lighting in the United
   States.  Residential LEDs -- especially ENERGY STAR rated products --
   use at least 75% less energy, and last up to 25 times longer, than
   incandescent lighting.

   Widespread use of LED lighting has a large potential impact on energy
   savings in the United States. By 2035, the majority of lighting
   installations are anticipated to use LED technology, and energy savings
   from LED lighting could top 569 TWh annually by 2035, equal to the
   annual energy output of more than 92 1,000 MW power plants.

How LEDs are Different

   LED lighting is very different from other lighting types such as
   incandescent and CFL. Key differences include:
     * Light Source: LEDs are the size of a fleck of pepper, and can emit
       light in a range of colors. A mix of red, green, and blue LEDs is
       sometimes used to make white light.
     * Direction: LEDs emit light in a specific direction, reducing the
       need for reflectors and diffusers that can trap light. This feature
       makes LEDs more efficient for many uses such as recessed downlights
       and task lighting. With other types of lighting, the light must be
       reflected to the desired direction and more than half of the light
       may never leave the fixture.
     * Heat: LEDs emit very little heat. In comparison, incandescent bulbs
       release 90% of their energy as heat and CFLs release about 80% of
       their energy as heat.
     * Lifetime: LED lighting products typically last much longer than
       other lighting types.  A good quality LED bulb can last 3 to 5
       times longer than a CFL and 30 times longer than an incandescent
       bulb.
--
LED Products

   LED lighting is available in a wide variety of home and industrial
   products, and the list is growing every year. The rapid development of
   LED technology has resulted in increased product availability, improved
   manufacturing efficiency, and lower prices. Below are some of the most
   common types of LED products.
   Image related to LED Lighting

Industrial and Commercial Lighting

   The high efficiency and directional nature of LEDs makes them ideal for
   many industrial uses. LEDs are increasingly common in street lights,
   parking garage lighting, walkway and other outdoor area lighting,
   refrigerated case lighting, modular lighting, and task lighting.


   Image related to LED Lighting

Under-Cabinet Lighting

   Because LEDs are small and directional, they are ideal for lighting
   tight spaces such as countertops for cooking and reading recipes. Since
   there can be variation in light color and directionality, it is
   important to compare products to find the best fixture for your space.



   Image related to LED Lighting

Recessed Downlights

   Recessed downlights are commonly used in residential kitchens,
   hallways, and bathrooms, and in a number of office and commercial
   settings. DOE estimates there are more than 600 million recessed
   downlights installed in U.S. homes and businesses.


--
   With performance improvements and dropping prices, LED lamps can
   affordably and effectively replace 40, 60, 75, and even 100 Watt
   incandescent bulbs. It's important to read the Lighting Facts Label to
   make sure the product is the right brightness and color for
   its intended use and location.
   Image related to LED Lighting

LED Holiday Lights

   LEDs consume far less electricity than incandescent bulbs, and
   decorative LED light strings such as Christmas tree lights are no
   different. Not only do LED holiday lights consume less electricity,
   they also have the following advantages:
     * Safer: LEDs are much cooler than incandescent lights, reducing the
       risk of combustion or burnt fingers.
     * Sturdier: LEDs are made with epoxy lenses, not glass, and are much
--
     *
          + Saving Electricity
       Lighting Choices to Save You Money
       April 9, 2025
     *
   Lumens and the Lighting Facts Label
       December 15, 2025
     *
   Lighting and Daylighting Products and Services
       March 7, 2025

