Light rays, waves, and wavelets


Light sources


+ [117]Partially coherent light


Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better than


[135]Reflection of light [136]law of refraction [137]refractive indices


* [145]Why is light important for life on Earth?


* [153]University of Colorado Boulder - Department of Physics - Light


* [156]VIVA Open Publishing - Introduction to Petrology - Light and


Optics Part 1: Electromagnetic Spectrum, Properties of Light


* [157]The National Academies Press - Harnessing Light: Optical


* What is light and how does it help us see things?


* What are lenses, and how do they change the direction of light?


light, the changes that it undergoes and produces, and other


the nature and properties of light itself. Geometrical optics has to do


mirrors, and other devices that make use of light. It also includes


application of light, even though the ultimate receiver is not the eye


and other devices that make use of light are considered. The [172]wave


and [173]quantum nature of light, its velocity, wavelength,


polarization, diffraction, and [174]interference may be found in light.


The analysis of light into its component colours by prisms and gratings


reception of light by the [176]retina of the eye and the interpretation


an object by a lens or [180]mirror system, employing light as a


eye, and, whatever means is used to transmit and control the light, the


century, however, it was known that rays of light travel in straight


emitting rays of light in all directions. Some of these rays would


as any recognizable nonuniformity in the light distribution over a


innumerable separate points of light, and it is sometimes more


Light rays, [196]waves, and wavelets


A single point of light, which may be a point in an extended object,


emits light in the form of a continually expanding train of waves,


spherical in shape and centred about the point of light. It is,


perpendicular to the waves. When the light beam is refracted by a lens


light wave progresses because each point in it becomes the centre of a


of light, each new wave being merely the envelope of all these


outermost rays of the light beam, they destroy each other by mutual


exist outside the geometrical light beam defined by the rays. The


the light [200]energy to the region of the rectilinear ray paths,


however, breaks down when the light beam strikes an [201]opaque edge,


lightly into the shadow area. This


[203]Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better


Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better than


pinholesLearn how a pinhole can focus light and about the advantages of


light on the film. The spreading of the light at the boundary of a


light. If the pinhole is made


lenses have much greater apertures, in order to achieve light-gathering


progressively fainter rings of light surrounding a central dot, the


light). Nevertheless, the Airy disk formed by a telescope or microscope


objective can be readily seen with a bright point source of light if a


of the objective, the light-gathering lens. This works out at about


light, the [214]emerging wave is a sphere centred about the image


light, much different from the minute Airy disk [216]characteristic of


wavelength of light. As this difference represents only 0.125 micron (5


[218]Reflection of light (BUTTON)


[219]Reflection of lightIn the reflection of light, the angle of


The use of polished mirrors for reflecting light has been known for


When a ray of light is reflected at a polished surface, the angle of


mirrors are often used in instruments to bend a [223]beam of light into


When a ray of light meets the surface of separation between two


of light waves through a surface must be considered if refraction is to


be understood. Refraction effects are based on the fact that light


light in air to its velocity in the medium is called the


[226]refractive index of the medium for light of a particular colour or


wavelength. The refractive index is higher for [227]blue light than for


light at the red end of the spectrum.


[229]law of refractionFigure 1: The law of refraction. Plane light wave


In Figure 1, AA′ represents a plane wave of light at the instant that


light to travel from A to B in material n, light travels from A′ to B′


Returning now to the convention of considering the movement of light in


perpendicular to the light waves they represent, angles I and I′ also


material for a specific blue light and a specific red light is known as


lights are the so-called “F” and “C” lines of hydrogen in the solar


When a ray of light emerges obliquely from glass into air, the angle of


light into the air.


Light is totally internally reflected in many types of reflecting


side-by-side in precise order. The light admitted into one end of each


to [253]transmit light around corners to an otherwise inaccessible


length f′. A similar situation exists for a parallel beam of light


include lenses, mirrors, light sources, detectors, projection screens,


limit the diameter of the beams of light passing through the system


light. This effect is known as [304]vignetting and leads to a reduction


the target on the cross wire or reticle at B. The light then proceeds


Beyond this image is the eyepiece E to render the light parallel so


employed to bend a beam of light in another direction, either for


unsolved. A metal mirror, if well ribbed on the back, may be lighter


lightly flexible and require just as careful support as glass mirrors.


Light sources


Many types of optical instruments form images by natural light, but


artificial light. Tungsten filament lamps are the most common, but if a


light is brilliant, monochromatic, collimated (the rays are parallel),


light falling on the device. Many new types of detectors are sensitive


then scanned by a tiny point of light; the light passing through the


light scanning a second piece of film in exact synchronism with the


auditorium. A screen covered with tiny beads tends to send the light


the light in a horizontal band across the audience with little or no


that they tend to reflect ambient room light away from the viewer as by


carefully specified angles. Some of these surfaces transmit light, some


reflect light, while some serve both functions in succession. A prism


which are [329]traversed in succession by a beam of light.


beam of light through a right angle. The common [332]Porro prism used


the light from the lens is divided by two beam splitters in succession


[337]constituent colours of a beam of light into a “spectrum,” namely a


the glass is lowest for red light and progressively increases through


groove diffracts, or scatters, light in all directions, and in the case


of light of one particular wavelength, there will be one direction in


which the light wave from one groove lags behind the light wave from


results in a strong beam of diffracted light in that direction and


light beam by selective absorption of some colours in relation to


serves to reduce the intensity of a beam of light without changing its


interference of light has been developed in which one or more metallic


[342]Polarizing filters have the property of [343]transmitting light


that vibrates in one direction while absorbing light that vibrates in a


Light ray passing through an optical fibre. (BUTTON)


material transmits light by repeated internal reflections, even when


scale, [354]Fresnel lenses have been used in lighthouses, floodlights,


of light in space for aligning machines and [355]shafting, but since


monochromatic light, then, as noted above, the light wave emerging from


lightly from a perfect sphere, the departure


extremely small, being of the order of the wavelength of light that is


intensity of light. If the image plane is moved along the axis by a


light have an average luminance of


several hundred candles per square foot. The quantity of light


one steradian. When light falls upon a surface it produces illumination


other light receptors cannot respond satisfactorily if the light level


candles. This source radiates light into a cone of semi-angle U,


limited, for example, by the rim of a lens. The light flux (F) entering


the axis with an intensity AB cos ϕ. This light has to travel farther


than the axial light to reach a screen, and then it strikes the screen


to a lens, assuming a uniform extended diffusing source of light on the


more light from an object in proportion to the area of the lens


the increased light is spread over an increased area of the retina, and


always dimmer than the direct view because of light losses in the


appear as anything other than a point of light. Hence, star images


light-advantages-pinholes-lenses/-203776


light-angle-incidence.jpg


light-wave.jpg


light-important-for-life-on-Earth


light-and-optics/


light


light


light-advantages-pinholes-lenses/-203776


light-angle-incidence.jpg


light-angle-incidence.jpg


light


light-wave.jpg


light-wave.jpg


lighting


Light-ray-fibre.jpg


Light-ray-fibre.jpg


light


