   Images, Videos & Interactives
   Diyas lit for Diwali Hindu Holidays: Celebrating Gods and Seasons
   Why Is Diwali Called the Festival of Lights?
   Rangoli for Diwali On This Day: Diwali
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
--
   artist, folk artist, environmental art
   Explore India Quiz
   People lighting traditional earthen lamps during the Hindu festival
   Diwali in India. flame
   All About Diwali Quiz
--
   Philosophy & Religion Religious Beliefs
   Diyas lit for Diwali (BUTTON)
   Diyas lit for Diwali On Diwali, lighting lamps called diyas are an
   important part of the celebration. (BUTTON) (more)

--
   revise the article.
   External Websites
     * CNN Travel - Diwali in India: How the Festival of Lights is
       celebrated
     * National Library Board Singapore - Deepavali
--
   Diwali, also spelled Divali, is one of the major religious festivals in
   Hinduism, Jainism, and Sikhism. The name is derived from the Sanskrit
   term dipavali, meaning “row of lights.” The festival generally
   symbolizes the victory of light over darkness.

   Which religions celebrate Diwali?
--

   Diwali is an important festival in Jainism. For the Jain community, the
   festival commemorates the enlightenment and liberation (moksha) of
   Mahavira, the most recent of the Jain Tirthankaras, from the cycle of
   life and death (samsara). The lighting of the lamps celebrates the
   light of Mahavira’s holy knowledge.

   How is Diwali celebrated?

   People celebrate Diwali differently depending on region and tradition.
   Hindus light diyas (earthenware lamps) on the new moon night to honor
   Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth. People exchange gifts, wear new
   clothes, feast, feed the poor, and set off fireworks (though these are
--
   Diwali, one of the major religious festivals in Hinduism, Jainism, and
   Sikhism, lasting for five days from the 13th day of the dark half of
   the lunar month Ashvina to the second day of the light half of the
   lunar month Karttika. (The corresponding dates in the Gregorian
   calendar usually fall in late October and November.) The name is
   derived from the Sanskrit term dipavali, meaning “row of lights.” The
   festival generally symbolizes the victory of light over darkness.

History
--
   are said to drive out the goddess Alakshmi (“Misfortune”) and
   propitiate Lakshmi (“Fortune”).
   People lighting traditional earthen lamps during the Hindu festival
   Diwali in India. flame
   Britannica Quiz
--

   Observances of Diwali differ depending on region and tradition. Among
   Hindus the most widespread custom is the lighting of diyas (small
   earthenware lamps filled with oil) on the night of the new moon to
   invite the presence of Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth. In Bengal the
--
   commemoration of the marriage of Lakshmi and Vishnu, while others
   observe it as the birthday of Lakshmi.
   Why Is Diwali Called the Festival of Lights?
   Why Is Diwali Called the Festival of Lights?Learn about the meaning of
   the name Diwali and the significance of the festival in associated
   religious traditions. (BUTTON) (more)
--
       offered for the souls of ancestors.
     * On the third day, Lakshmi Puja, families seek blessings from
       Lakshmi to ensure their prosperity; light diyas, candles, and
       fireworks; and visit temples. It is the main day of the Diwali
       festival and occurs on the new moon day.
--
   Rangoli for Diwali (BUTTON)
   Rangoli for DiwaliLines and lamps joining together in a rangoli for
   Diwali, the festival of lights. (BUTTON) (more)

   Diwali is generally a time for visiting, exchanging gifts, wearing new
--

   Diwali is also an important festival in Jainism. For the Jain
   community, the festival commemorates the enlightenment and liberation
   (moksha) of Mahavira, the most recent of the Jain Tirthankaras, from
   the cycle of life and death (samsara). The lighting of the lamps
   celebrates the light of Mahavira’s holy knowledge.

   Since the 18th century, Diwali has been celebrated in Sikhism as the
   time of Guru Hargobind’s return to Amritsar from captivity in
   Gwalior—an echo of Rama’s return to Ayodhya. Residents of Amritsar
   light lamps throughout the city to celebrate the occasion.

   Also spelled:
--
          Diwali and Beyond
          diya
          The Festival of Lights

   (BUTTON) (Show more)
--
   converted to Buddhism in the 3rd century bce. It is observed by the
   Vajrayana Buddhist minority among the Newar people of Nepal. They
   celebrate by lighting lamps, decorating temples and monasteries, and
   worshipping the Buddha.
   The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently
