   elaborate reproductive structures or leaves.
   Figure 1: Photosynthetic plants synthesize carbon-based energy
   molecules from the energy in sunlight. Consequently, they provide an
   abundance of energy for other organisms.
   Plants exist in a wide variety of shapes and sizes. (A) Coleochaete
--
   Figure 3: Structure of a chloroplast
   © 2010 Nature Education All rights reserved. View Terms of Use
   Photosynthetic cells contain special pigments that absorb light energy.
   Different pigments respond to different wavelengths of visible light.
   Chlorophyll, the primary pigment used in photosynthesis, reflects green
   light and absorbs red and blue light most strongly. In plants,
   photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts, which contain the
   chlorophyll. Chloroplasts are surrounded by a double membrane and
--
   Chlorophyll A is the major pigment used in photosynthesis, but there
   are several types of chlorophyll and numerous other pigments that
   respond to light, including red, brown, and blue pigments. These other
   pigments may help channel light energy to chlorophyll A or protect the
   cell from photo-damage. For example, the photosynthetic protists called
   dinoflagellates, which are responsible for the "red tides" that often
   prompt warnings against eating shellfish, contain a variety of
   light-sensitive pigments, including both chlorophyll and the red
   pigments responsible for their dramatic coloration.

--
What Are the Steps of Photosynthesis?

   Photosynthesis consists of both light-dependent reactions and
   light-independent reactions. In plants, the so-called "light" reactions
   occur within the chloroplast thylakoids, where the aforementioned
   chlorophyll pigments reside. When light energy reaches the pigment
   molecules, it energizes the electrons within them, and these electrons
   are shunted to an electron transport chain in the thylakoid membrane.
--
   molecules to produce oxygen (Figure 5).

   An illustration shows the light and dark reactions for photosynthesis
   drawn on top of a simplified image of a chloroplast, represented as an
   oviform capsule. Inside the capsule are five stacks of three or four
--
   thylakoid stacks have been cut away so that their interiors, which are
   hollow, are visible.
   Figure 5: The light and dark reactions in the chloroplast
   The chloroplast is involved in both stages of photosynthesis. The light
   reactions take place in the thylakoid. There, water (H[2]O) is
   oxidized, and oxygen (O[2]) is released. The electrons that freed from
--
   Figure Detail

   Once the light reactions have occurred, the light-independent or "dark"
   reactions take place in the chloroplast stroma. During this process,
   also known as carbon fixation, energy from the ATP and NADPH molecules
   generated by the light reactions drives a chemical pathway that uses
   the carbon in carbon dioxide (from the atmosphere) to build a
   three-carbon sugar called glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P). Cells then
--
Conclusion

   Photosynthetic cells contain chlorophyll and other light-sensitive
   pigments that capture solar energy. In the presence of carbon dioxide,
   such cells are able to convert this solar energy into energy-rich
