   Close
     * Introduction
     * Underwater Light
     * Why Animals Light Up
     * Human Connections

--

   Contents
     * Underwater Light
          + How it’s made
          + Who makes it?
          + What Color is Bioluminescence?
     * Why Animals Light Up
          + Feeding
          + Attracting Mates
--

   You may have seen the sparkle of fireflies on a summer’s night. The
   fireflies produce light through a chemical reaction in their glowing
   abdomens, a process known as bioluminescence. But did you know that
   seascapes can also glow and glitter thanks to the light producing
   abilities of many marine organisms? Some fish dangle a lighted lure in
   front of their mouths to attract prey, while some squid shoot out
   bioluminescent liquid, instead of ink, to confuse their predators.
--
   Humans primarily see bioluminescence triggered by a physical
   disturbance, such as waves or a moving boat hull, that gets the animal
   to show their light off, but often animals light up in response to an
   attack or in order to attract a mate. Bioluminescent organisms live
   throughout the water column, from the surface to the seafloor, from
--
   may be the most common form of communication on the planet!

Underwater Light

How it’s made

   A photo of a lanternfish with its nasal light organ illuminated.
   This lanternfish (Diaphus sp.), found in the Red Sea, has
   light-producing photophores along its ventral surface (belly), and a
   nasal light organ that acts like a headlight. (E. Widder, ORCA,
   www.teamorca.org)

   Bioluminescence occurs through a chemical reaction that produces light
   energy within an organism's body. For a reaction to occur, a species
   must contain luciferin, a molecule that, when it reacts with oxygen,
   produces light. There are different types of luciferin, which vary
   depending on the animal hosting the reaction. Many organisms also
   produce the catalyst luciferase, which helps to speed up the reaction.

   Animals can closely control when they light up by regulating their
   chemistry and brain processes depending on their immediate needs,
   whether a meal or a mate. Some organisms even bundle the luciferin with
   oxygen in what is called a “photoprotein”—like a pre-packaged
   bioluminescence bomb—that is ready to light up the moment a certain ion
   (typically calcium) becomes present. They can even choose the intensity
   and color of the lights.

Who makes it?
--
   Sunset? Time to glow! A biological clock triggers bioluminescence in
   the dinoflagellate Pyrocystis fusiformis. At dusk, cells produce the
   chemicals responsible for its light. (E. Widder, ORCA,
   www.teamorca.org)

--
   a few. In fish alone, there are about 1,500 known species that
   luminesce. In some cases, animals take in bacteria or other
   bioluminescent creatures to gain the ability to light up. For example,
   the Hawaiian bobtail squid has a special light organ that is colonized
   by bioluminescent bacteria within hours of its birth. But usually, the
   animal itself contains the chemicals necessary for the reaction that
   produces bioluminescence. The number of species that bioluminesce and
   the variations in the chemical reactions that produce light are
   evidence that bioluminescence has evolved many times over—at least 40
   separate times! This number continues to grow as research makes new
--
   increase from the handful of times that were known before.

   Most deep-sea animals produce some bioluminescent light, but the
   phenomenon isn’t relegated to the deep: one of the most common
   sightings occurs at the surface of the ocean. Many small planktonic
--
   bioluminescent. When conditions are right, dinoflagellates bloom in
   dense layers at the surface of the water, causing the ocean to take on
   a reddish-brown color in daylight and a sparkly sheen as they move in
   the waves at night. When the dinoflagellates are poisonous to other
   animals, these events are called harmful algal blooms (HABs). When
--
   Álvarez, Flickr)

   Light travels in waves of different shapes—known as wavelengths—which
   determine the color of the light. When the waves hit our eyes, they are
   translated into colors by the brain depending on their wavelength. The
   wavelengths that our eyes can see are known as the "visible light
   spectrum," and we can see all the colors on this spectrum as they
   travel through the air above land. But light travels differently
   underwater because longer wavelengths can't travel as far. Most of the
   bioluminescence produced in the ocean is in the form of blue-green
   light. This is because these colors are shorter wavelengths of light,
   which can travel through (and thus be seen) in both shallow and deep
   water. Light traveling from the sun of longer wavelengths—such as red
   light—doesn't reach the deep sea. This is why many deep sea animals are
   red: it's effectively the same as being invisible. Moreover, because
   it's not present, many deep-water animals have lost the ability to see
   it altogether. However, some animals evolved to emit and see red light,
   including the dragonfish (Malacosteus). By creating their own red light
   in the deep sea, they are able to see red-colored prey, as well as
   communicate and even show prey to other dragonfish, while other
   unsuspecting animals cannot see their red lights as a warning to flee.

Why Animals Light Up

Feeding
--
   mates. (Michael Vecchione/NOAA)

   Animals can use their light to lure prey towards their mouths, or even
   to light up the area nearby so that they can see their next meal a bit
   better. Sometimes the prey being lured can be small plankton, like
   those attracted to the bioluminescence around the beak of the
   Stauroteuthis octopus. But the light can also fool larger animals.
   Whales and squid are attracted to the glowing underside of the
   cookie-cutter shark, which grabs a bite out of the animals once they
--
   males while moving around in circles. These glowing worms may have even
   helped to welcome Christopher Columbus to the New World. Anglerfish,
   flashlight fish and ponyfish all are thought to luminesce in order to
   tell the difference between males and females, or otherwise communicate
   in order to mate.
--

   This fish is using counterillumination to disappear. At left it stands
   out against the light above it. At right, with bioluminescent
   structures lit, it blends in.
   This fish is using counterillumination to disappear. At left it stands
   out against the light above it. At right, with bioluminescent
   structures lit, it blends in. (Smithsonian Institution)

--
   Bioluminescence can also be used to help camouflage with the use of
   counterillumination. Photophores on the bottom side of an animal can
   match the dim light coming from the surface, making it harder for
   predators searching for prey from below to see what they are looking
   for.
--
Art

   A light painted image of a hand-painted ceramic fish with light
   emitting from its mouth
   Using a photographic technique called light painting, this image
   captures light emitted from a ceramic fish's mouth. (Flickr User
   nickel.media)

   For the animals who bioluminesce, it is a matter of communicating and
   protecting themselves from being eaten or hurt. But for humans, the
   beautiful colors and light that are produced by bioluminescence can be
   works of art.

--
   specializes in bioluminescence, was with a group attempting to film the
   giant squid for the first time. She suspected that the giant squid
   would be lured to a bioluminescent light attached to a fake squid—not
   because it wanted to eat the small fake squid, but because its flashing
   light "burglar alarm" could mean that there was larger prey in the
   vicinity. Her theory proved right. A live giant squid was captured for
   the first time on film in 2012!
