   (BUTTON) move to sidebar (BUTTON) hide
     * (Top)
     * 1 Electromagnetic spectrum and visible light
     * 2 Speed of light
     * 3 Optics
       (BUTTON) Toggle Optics subsection
          + 3.1 Surface scattering
          + 3.2 Refraction
     * 4 Light sources
     * 5 Measurement
     * 6 Light pressure
     * 7 Historical theories about light, in chronological order
       (BUTTON) Toggle Historical theories about light, in chronological
       order subsection
          + 7.1 Classical Greece and Hellenism
--
          + 7.7 Quantum theory
          + 7.8 Quantum optics
     * 8 Use for light on Earth
     * 9 See also
     * 10 Notes
--
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Light

   [ ] 182 languages
--
   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Electromagnetic radiation humans can see
   For other uses, see Light (disambiguation). "Visible light" redirects
   here. For other uses, see Visible light (disambiguation).

   [330px-Prism_flat_rainbow_%28cropped%29.jpg] A triangular prism
   dispersing a beam of white light. The longer wavelengths (red) and the
   shorter wavelengths (green-blue) are separated.
                        Modern physics
--
     * Information
     * Entropy
     * Light
     * Particle
     * Wave
--
     * e

   Light, visible light, or visible radiation is electromagnetic radiation
   that can be perceived by the human eye.^[1]^[2] Visible light spans the
   visible spectrum and is usually defined as having wavelengths in the
   range of 400–700 nanometres (nm), corresponding to frequencies of
--
   optical radiation.^[3]^[4]

   In physics, the term "light" may refer more broadly to electromagnetic
   radiation of any wavelength, whether visible or not.^[5]^[6] In this
   sense, gamma rays, X-rays, microwaves and radio waves are also light.
   This is why visible radiation is commonly termed visible light.^[7]^[8]

   The primary properties of light are intensity, propagation direction,
   frequency or wavelength spectrum, and polarization. Its speed in
   vacuum, 299792458 m/s, is one of the fundamental constants of
   nature.^[9] All electromagnetic radiation exhibits some properties of
   both particles and waves. Single, massless elementary particles, or
   quanta, of light called photons can be detected with specialized
   equipment; phenomena like interference are described by waves. Most
   everyday interactions with light can be understood using geometrical
   optics. Quantum optics is an important research area in modern physics.

   The main source of natural light on Earth is the Sun. Historically,
   another important source of light for humans has been fire, from
   ancient campfires to modern kerosene lamps. With the development of
   electric lights and power systems, electric lighting has effectively
   replaced firelight.

Electromagnetic spectrum and visible light

   [500px-EM_spectrum.svg.png] The electromagnetic spectrum, with the
   visible portion highlighted. The bottom graph (Visible spectrum) is
   wavelength in units of nanometres (nm).
   Main article: Electromagnetic spectrum
--
   Generally, electromagnetic radiation (EMR) is classified by wavelength
   into radio waves, microwaves, infrared, the visible spectrum that we
   perceive as light, ultraviolet, X-rays and gamma rays. The designation
   "radiation" excludes static electric, magnetic and near fields.

--
   the amount of energy per quantum it carries.

   EMR in the visible light region consists of quanta (called photons)
   that are at the lower end of the energies that are capable of causing
   electronic excitation within molecules, which leads to changes in the
   bonding or chemistry of the molecule. At the lower end of the visible
   light spectrum, EMR becomes invisible to humans (infrared) because its
   photons no longer have enough individual energy to cause a lasting
   molecular change (a change in conformation) in the visual molecule
--
   how these animals detect it.

   Above the frequency range of visible light, ultraviolet light becomes
   invisible to humans, mostly because it is absorbed by the cornea with
   wavelengths shorter than 360 nm and the internal lens at wavelengths
--
   shrimp) are able to detect ultraviolet, by quantum photon-absorption
   mechanisms, in much the same chemical way that humans detect visible
   light.

   Various sources define visible light as narrowly as
   420–680 nm^[10]^[11] to as broadly as 380–800 nm.^[12]^[13] Under ideal
   laboratory conditions, people can see infrared up to at least
--
   wavelengths down to about 310–313 nm.^[15]^[16]^[17]

   Plant growth is also affected by the colour spectrum of light, a
   process known as photomorphogenesis.

Speed of light

   Main article: Speed of light
   [250px-Rocca_dell%27Abisso%2C_Fondachelli_Fantina%2C_Sicilia.JPG] Beam
   of sun light inside the cavity of Rocca ill'Abissu at
   Fondachelli-Fantina, Sicily

   The speed of light in vacuum is defined to be exactly 299792458 m/s
   (approximately 186,282 miles per second). The fixed value of the speed
   of light in SI units results from the fact that the metre is now
   defined in terms of the speed of light. All forms of electromagnetic
   radiation move at exactly this same speed in vacuum.

   Different physicists have attempted to measure the speed of light
   throughout history. Galileo attempted to measure the speed of light in
   the seventeenth century. An early experiment to measure the speed of
   light was conducted by Ole Rømer, a Danish physicist, in 1676. Using a
   telescope, Rømer observed the motions of Jupiter and one of its moons,
   Io. Noting discrepancies in the apparent period of Io's orbit, he
   calculated that light takes about 22 minutes to traverse the diameter
   of Earth's orbit.^[18] However, its size was not known at that time. If
   Rømer had known the diameter of the Earth's orbit, he would have
   calculated a speed of 227000000 m/s.

   Another more accurate measurement of the speed of light was performed
   in Europe by Hippolyte Fizeau in 1849.^[19] Fizeau directed a beam of
   light at a mirror several kilometers away. A rotating cog wheel was
   placed in the path of the light beam as it traveled from the source, to
   the mirror and then returned to its origin. Fizeau found that at a
   certain rate of rotation, the beam would pass through one gap in the
   wheel on the way out and the next gap on the way back. Knowing the
   distance to the mirror, the number of teeth on the wheel and the rate
   of rotation, Fizeau was able to calculate the speed of light as
   313000000 m/s.

   Léon Foucault carried out an experiment which used rotating mirrors to
   obtain a value of 298000000 m/s^[19] in 1862. Albert A. Michelson
   conducted experiments on the speed of light from 1877 until his death
   in 1931. He refined Foucault's methods in 1926 using improved rotating
   mirrors to measure the time it took light to make a round trip from
   Mount Wilson to Mount San Antonio in California. The precise
   measurements yielded a speed of 299796000 m/s.^[20]

   The effective velocity of light in various transparent substances
   containing ordinary matter, is less than in vacuum. For example, the
   speed of light in water is about 3/4 of that in vacuum.

   Two independent teams of physicists were said to bring light to a
   "complete standstill" by passing it through a Bose–Einstein condensate
   of the element rubidium, one team at Harvard University and the Rowland
   Institute for Science in Cambridge, Massachusetts and the other at the
   Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, also in Cambridge.^[21]
   However, the popular description of light being "stopped" in these
   experiments refers only to light being stored in the excited states of
   atoms, then re-emitted at an arbitrary later time, as stimulated by a
   second laser pulse. During the time it had "stopped", it had ceased to
   be light.

Optics
--
   [960px-Linear_visible_spectrum.svg.png]

   The study of light and the interaction of light and matter is termed
   optics. Optics has different forms appropriate to different
   circumstances. Geometrical optics, appropriate for understanding things
   like eyes, lenses, cameras, fiber optics, and mirrors, works well when
   the wavelength of light is small in comparison to the objects it
   interacts with. Physical optics incorporates wave properties and is
   needed understand diffraction and interference. Quantum optics applies
--
Surface scattering

   A transparent object allows light to transmit or pass through.
   Conversely, an opaque object does not allow light to transmit through
   and instead reflecting or absorbing the light it receives. Most objects
   do not reflect or transmit light specularly and to some degree scatters
   the incoming light, which is called glossiness. Surface scattering is
   caused by the surface roughness of the reflecting surfaces, and
   internal scattering is caused by the difference of refractive index
   between the particles and medium inside the object. Like transparent
   objects, translucent objects allow light to transmit through, but
   translucent objects also scatter certain wavelength of light via
   internal scattering.^[23]

--
   viewed from a shallow angle.

   Refraction is the bending of light rays when passing through a surface
   between one transparent material and another. It is described by
   Snell's Law:
--
   = 1 in a vacuum and n > 1 in a transparent substance.

   When a beam of light crosses the boundary between a vacuum and another
   medium, or between two different media, the wavelength of the light
   changes, but the frequency remains constant. If the beam of light is
   not orthogonal (or rather normal) to the boundary, the change in
   wavelength results in a change in the direction of the beam. This
   change of direction is known as refraction.

   The refractive quality of lenses is frequently used to manipulate light
   in order to change the apparent size of images. Magnifying glasses,
   spectacles, contact lenses, microscopes and refracting telescopes are
   all examples of this manipulation.

Light sources

   "Lightsource" redirects here. For the solar energy developer named
   Lightsource, see Lightsource Renewable Energy. For a particle
   accelerator used to generate X-rays, see Synchrotron light source.

   Further information: List of light sources

   There are many sources of light. A body at a given temperature emits a
   characteristic spectrum of black-body radiation. A simple thermal
   source is sunlight, the radiation emitted by the chromosphere of the
   Sun at around 6,000 K (5,730 °C; 10,340 °F). Solar radiation peaks in
   the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum when plotted in
   wavelength units,^[24] and roughly 44% of the radiation that reaches
   the ground is visible.^[25] Another example is incandescent light
   bulbs, which emit only around 10% of their energy as visible light and
   the remainder as infrared. A common thermal light source in history is
   the glowing solid particles in flames, but these also emit most of
   their radiation in the infrared and only a fraction in the visible
--
   not seen in stars or pure thermal radiation).

   Atoms emit and absorb light at characteristic energies. This produces
   "emission lines" in the spectrum of each atom. Emission can be
   spontaneous, as in light-emitting diodes, gas discharge lamps (such as
   neon lamps and neon signs, mercury-vapor lamps, etc.) and flames (light
   from the hot gas itself—so, for example, sodium in a gas flame emits
   characteristic yellow light). Emission can also be stimulated, as in a
   laser or a microwave maser.

--
   produce visible radiation: cyclotron radiation, synchrotron radiation
   and bremsstrahlung radiation are all examples of this. Particles moving
   through a medium faster than the speed of light in that medium can
   produce visible Cherenkov radiation. Certain chemicals produce visible
   radiation by chemoluminescence. In living things, this process is
   called bioluminescence. For example, fireflies produce light by this
   means and boats moving through water can disturb plankton which produce
   a glowing wake.

   Certain substances produce light when they are illuminated by more
   energetic radiation, a process known as fluorescence. Some substances
   emit light slowly after excitation by more energetic radiation. This is
   known as phosphorescence. Phosphorescent materials can also be excited
   by bombarding them with subatomic particles. Cathodoluminescence is one
   example. This mechanism is used in cathode-ray tube television sets and
   computer monitors.
   [250px-Colorful_artificial_lighting_at_night.jpg] Hong Kong illuminated
   by colourful artificial lighting

   Certain other mechanisms can produce light:
     * Electroluminescence
     * Scintillation
--
     * Triboluminescence

   When the concept of light is intended to include very-high-energy
   photons (gamma rays), additional generation mechanisms include:
     * Particle–antiparticle annihilation
--
   Main articles: Photometry (optics) and Radiometry

   Light is measured with two main alternative sets of units: radiometry
   consists of measurements of light power at all wavelengths, while
   photometry measures light with wavelength weighted with respect to a
   standardized model of human brightness perception. Photometry is
   useful, for example, to quantify Illumination (lighting) intended for
   human use.

   The photometry units are different from most systems of physical units
   in that they take into account how the human eye responds to light. The
   cone cells in the human eye are of three types which respond
   differently across the visible spectrum and the cumulative response
   peaks at a wavelength of around 555 nm. Therefore, two sources of light
   which produce the same intensity (W/m^2) of visible light do not
   necessarily appear equally bright. The photometry units are designed to
   take this into account and therefore are a better representation of how
   "bright" a light appears to be than raw intensity. They relate to raw
   power by a quantity called luminous efficacy and are used for purposes
   like determining how to best achieve sufficient illumination for
--
   infrared, ultraviolet or both.

Light pressure

   Main article: Radiation pressure

   Light exerts physical pressure on objects in its path, a phenomenon
   which can be deduced by Maxwell's equations, but can be more easily
   explained by the particle nature of light: photons strike and transfer
   their momentum. Light pressure is equal to the power of the light beam
   divided by c, the speed of light.  Due to the magnitude of c, the
   effect of light pressure is negligible for everyday objects.  For
   example, a one-milliwatt laser pointer exerts a force of about 3.3
   piconewtons on the object being illuminated; thus, one could lift a
--
   30 billion 1-mW laser pointers.^[26]  However, in nanometre-scale
   applications such as nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS), the effect
   of light pressure is more significant and exploiting light pressure to
   drive NEMS mechanisms and to flip nanometre-scale physical switches in
   integrated circuits is an active area of research.^[27] At larger
   scales, light pressure can cause asteroids to spin faster,^[28] acting
   on their irregular shapes as on the vanes of a windmill.  The
   possibility of making solar sails that would accelerate spaceships in
--

   Although the motion of the Crookes radiometer was originally attributed
   to light pressure, this interpretation is incorrect; the characteristic
   Crookes rotation is the result of a partial vacuum.^[31] This should
   not be confused with the Nichols radiometer, in which the (slight)
   motion caused by torque (though not enough for full rotation against
   friction) is directly caused by light pressure.^[32] As a consequence
   of light pressure, Einstein in 1909 predicted the existence of
   "radiation friction" which would oppose the movement of matter.^[33] He
   wrote, "radiation will exert pressure on both sides of the plate. The
--
   in brief."

   Usually light momentum is aligned with its direction of motion.
   However, for example in evanescent waves momentum is transverse to
   direction of propagation.^[34]

Historical theories about light, in chronological order

Classical Greece and Hellenism
--

   In about 300 BC, Euclid wrote Optica, in which he studied the
   properties of light. Euclid postulated that light travelled in straight
   lines and he described the laws of reflection and studied them
   mathematically. He questioned that sight is the result of a beam from
--

   In 55 BC, Lucretius, a Roman who carried on the ideas of earlier Greek
   atomists, wrote that "The light & heat of the sun; these are composed
   of minute atoms which, when they are shoved off, lose no time in
   shooting right across the interspace of air in the direction imparted
--
   similar to later particle theories, Lucretius's views were not
   generally accepted. Ptolemy (c. second century) wrote about the
   refraction of light in his book Optics.^[37]

Classical India

   In ancient India, the Hindu schools of Samkhya and Vaisheshika, from
   around the early centuries AD developed theories on light. According to
   the Samkhya school, light is one of the five fundamental "subtle"
   elements (tanmatra) out of which emerge the gross elements. The
   atomicity of these elements is not specifically mentioned and it
   appears that they were actually taken to be continuous.^[38] The Vishnu
   Purana refers to sunlight as "the seven rays of the sun".^[38]

   The Indian Buddhists, such as Dignāga in the fifth century and
   Dharmakirti in the seventh century, developed a type of atomism that is
   a philosophy about reality being composed of atomic entities that are
   momentary flashes of light or energy. They viewed light as being an
   atomic entity equivalent to energy.^[38]

Descartes

   René Descartes (1596–1650) held that light was a mechanical property of
   the luminous body, rejecting the "forms" of Ibn al-Haytham and Witelo
   as well as the "species" of Roger Bacon, Robert Grosseteste and
   Johannes Kepler.^[39] In 1637 he published a theory of the refraction
   of light that assumed, incorrectly, that light travelled faster in a
   denser medium than in a less dense medium. Descartes arrived at this
   conclusion by analogy with the behaviour of sound waves.^[citation
   needed] Although Descartes was incorrect about the relative speeds, he
   was correct in assuming that light behaved like a wave and in
   concluding that refraction could be explained by the speed of light in
   different media.

   Descartes is not the first to use the mechanical analogies but because
   he clearly asserts that light is only a mechanical property of the
   luminous body and the transmitting medium, Descartes's theory of light
   is regarded as the start of modern physical optics.^[39]

Particle theory

   Main article: Corpuscular theory of light

   [250px-PierreGassendi.jpg] Pierre Gassendi

   Pierre Gassendi (1592–1655), an atomist, proposed a particle theory of
   light which was published posthumously in the 1660s. Isaac Newton
   studied Gassendi's work at an early age and preferred his view to
   Descartes's theory of the plenum. He stated in his Hypothesis of Light
   of 1675 that light was composed of corpuscles (particles of matter)
   which were emitted in all directions from a source. One of Newton's
   arguments against the wave nature of light was that waves were known to
   bend around obstacles, while light travelled only in straight lines. He
   did, however, explain the phenomenon of the diffraction of light (which
   had been observed by Francesco Grimaldi) by allowing that a light
   particle could create a localised wave in the aether.

   Newton's theory could be used to predict the reflection of light, but
   could only explain refraction by incorrectly assuming that light
   accelerated upon entering a denser medium because the gravitational
   pull was greater. Newton published the final version of his theory in
   his Opticks of 1704. His reputation helped the particle theory of light
   to hold sway during the eighteenth century. The particle theory of
   light led Pierre-Simon Laplace to argue that a body could be so massive
   that light could not escape from it. In other words, it would become
   what is now called a black hole. Laplace withdrew his suggestion later,
   after a wave theory of light became firmly established as the model for
   light (as has been explained, neither a particle or wave theory is
   fully correct). A translation of Newton's essay on light appears in The
   large scale structure of space-time, by Stephen Hawking and George F.
   R. Ellis.

   The fact that light could be polarized was for the first time
   qualitatively explained by Newton using the particle theory.
   Étienne-Louis Malus in 1810 created a mathematical particle theory of
   polarization. Jean-Baptiste Biot in 1812 showed that this theory
   explained all known phenomena of light polarization. At that time the
   polarization was considered as the proof of the particle theory.

--

   To explain the origin of colours, Robert Hooke (1635–1703) developed a
   "pulse theory" and compared the spreading of light to that of waves in
   water in his 1665 work Micrographia ("Observation IX"). In 1672 Hooke
   suggested that light's vibrations could be perpendicular to the
   direction of propagation. Christiaan Huygens (1629–1695) worked out a
   mathematical wave theory of light in 1678 and published it in his
   Treatise on Light in 1690. He proposed that light was emitted in all
   directions as a series of waves in a medium called the luminiferous
   aether. As waves are not affected by gravity, it was assumed that they
--
   waves showing diffraction^[41]

   The wave theory predicted that light waves could interfere with each
   other like sound waves (as noted around 1800 by Thomas Young). Young
   showed by means of numerous diffraction experiments that light behaved
   as waves.^[42]^: 101  He first publicly stated his "general law" of
   interference in January 1802, in his book A Syllabus of a Course of
--

   He also proposed that different colours were caused by different
   wavelengths of light and explained colour vision in terms of
   three-coloured receptors in the eye.

   In 1816 André-Marie Ampère gave Augustin-Jean Fresnel an idea that the
   polarization of light can be explained by the wave theory if light were
   a transverse wave.^[45] Later, Fresnel independently worked out his own
   wave theory of light and presented it to the Académie des Sciences in
   1817. Siméon Denis Poisson challenged Fresnel's model, claiming that it
   predicted a bright spot in the shadow behind a circular obstacle
--
   experiment that showed the bright spot: Poisson's challenge became new
   evidence for the wave theory.^[42]^: 109  In 1818, Young wrote to Arago
   suggesting that light must be transverse waves, not the longitudinal
   waves characteristic of sound. Fresnel took up the idea and was able to
   show via mathematical methods that polarization could be explained by a
   transverse wave theory of light with no longitudinal
   vibration.^[42]^: 115 

   The weakness of the wave theory was that light waves, like sound waves,
   would need a medium for transmission. The existence of the hypothetical
   substance luminiferous aether proposed by Huygens in 1678 was cast into
--
   experiment.

   Newton's corpuscular theory implied that light would travel faster in a
   denser medium, while the wave theory of Huygens and others implied the
   opposite. At that time, the speed of light could not be measured
   accurately enough to decide which theory was correct. The first to make
   a sufficiently accurate measurement was Léon Foucault, in 1850.^[46]
--

   In 1845, Michael Faraday discovered that the plane of polarization of
   linearly polarized light is rotated when the light rays travel along
   the magnetic field direction in the presence of a transparent
   dielectric, an effect now known as Faraday rotation.^[47] This was the
   first evidence that light was related to electromagnetism. In 1846 he
   speculated that light might be some form of disturbance propagating
   along magnetic field lines.^[47] Faraday proposed in 1847 that light
   was a high-frequency electromagnetic vibration, which could propagate
   even in the absence of a medium such as the ether.^[48]

   Faraday's work inspired James Clerk Maxwell to study electromagnetic
   radiation and light. Maxwell discovered that self-propagating
   electromagnetic waves would travel through space at a constant speed,
   which happened to be equal to the previously measured speed of light.
   From this, Maxwell concluded that light was a form of electromagnetic
   radiation: he first stated this result in 1862 in On Physical Lines of
   Force. In 1873, he published A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism,
--
   after, Heinrich Hertz confirmed Maxwell's theory experimentally by
   generating and detecting radio waves in the laboratory and
   demonstrating that these waves behaved exactly like visible light,
   exhibiting properties such as reflection, refraction, diffraction and
   interference. Maxwell's theory and Hertz's experiments led directly to
--
   In the quantum theory, photons are seen as wave packets of the waves
   described in the classical theory of Maxwell. The quantum theory was
   needed to explain effects even with visual light that Maxwell's
   classical theory could not (such as spectral lines).

--

   In 1900 Max Planck, attempting to explain black-body radiation,
   suggested that although light was a wave, these waves could gain or
   lose energy only in finite amounts related to their frequency. Planck
   called these "lumps" of light energy "quanta" (from a Latin word for
   "how much"). In 1905, Albert Einstein used the idea of light quanta to
   explain the photoelectric effect and suggested that these light quanta
   had a "real" existence. In 1923 Arthur Holly Compton showed that the
   wavelength shift seen when low intensity X-rays scattered from
   electrons (so called Compton scattering) could be explained by a
   particle-theory of X-rays, but not a wave theory. In 1926 Gilbert N.
   Lewis named these light quanta particles photons.^[49]

   Eventually quantum mechanics came to picture light as (in some sense)
   both a particle and a wave, and (in another sense) as a phenomenon
   which is neither a particle nor a wave (which actually are macroscopic
   phenomena, such as baseballs or ocean waves). Instead, under some
   approximations light can be described sometimes with mathematics
   appropriate to one type of macroscopic metaphor (particles) and
   sometimes another macroscopic metaphor (waves).
--
   to behave more like a classical wave at lower frequencies, but more
   like a classical particle at higher frequencies, but never completely
   loses all qualities of one or the other. Visible light, which occupies
   a middle ground in frequency, can easily be shown in experiments to be
   describable using either a wave or particle model, or sometimes both.

   In 1924–1925, Satyendra Nath Bose showed that light followed different
   statistics from that of classical particles. With Einstein, they
   generalized this result for a whole set of integer spin particles
--
   applied quantum theory to the electromagnetic field in the 1950s and
   1960s to gain a more detailed understanding of photodetection and the
   statistics of light (see degree of coherence). This led to the
   introduction of the coherent state as a concept which addressed
   variations between laser light, thermal light, exotic squeezed states,
   etc. as it became understood that light cannot be fully described just
   referring to the electromagnetic fields describing the waves in the
   classical picture. In 1977, H. Jeff Kimble et al. demonstrated a single
   atom emitting one photon at a time, further compelling evidence that
   light consists of photons. Previously unknown quantum states of light
   with characteristics unlike classical states, such as squeezed light
   were subsequently discovered.

--
   and modelocking techniques—opened the way to the study of what became
   known as ultrafast processes. Applications for solid state research
   (e.g. Raman spectroscopy) were found, and mechanical forces of light on
   matter were studied. The latter led to levitating and positioning
   clouds of atoms or even small biological samples in an optical trap or
--
   from quantum optics, partly from theoretical computer science.

Use for light on Earth

   Sunlight provides the energy that green plants use to create sugars
   mostly in the form of starches, which release energy into the living
   things that digest them. This process of photosynthesis provides
   virtually all the energy used by living things. Some species of animals
   generate their own light, a process called bioluminescence. For
   example, fireflies use light to locate mates and vampire squid use it
   to hide themselves from prey.

--
     * Huygens' principle
     * Journal of Luminescence
     * Light beam – in particular about light beams visible from the side
     * Light Fantastic (TV series)
     * Light mill
     * List of light sources
     * Luminescence: The Journal of Biological and Chemical Luminescence
     * Spectroscopy
--
References

    1. ^ CIE (1987). International Lighting Vocabulary Archived 27
       February 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Number 17.4. CIE, 4th ed..
       ISBN 978-3-900734-07-7.
       By the International Lighting Vocabulary, the definition of light
       is: "Any radiation capable of causing a visual sensation directly."
    2. ^ CIE JTC 8. "light, <photometric> noun". CIE S 017/E:2020 ILV:
       International Lighting Vocabulary, 2nd Edition. International
       Commission on Illumination (CIE). doi:10.25039/S017.2020.{{cite
       book}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
--
       ISBN 978-81-250-2021-9. Archived from the original on 8 October
       2022. Retrieved 11 October 2013. "The human eye has the ability to
       respond to all the wavelengths of light from 400–700 nm. This is
       called the visible part of the spectrum."
    4. ^ Buser, Pierre A.; Imbert, Michel (1992). Vision. MIT Press.
       p. 50. ISBN 978-0-262-02336-8. Retrieved 11 October 2013. "Light is
       a special class of radiant energy embracing wavelengths between 400
       and 700 nm (or mμ), or 4000 to 7000 Å."
--
       retina."
   15. ^ Lynch, David K.; Livingston, William Charles (2001). Color and
       Light in Nature (2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
       p. 231. ISBN 978-0-521-77504-5. Archived from the original on 8
       October 2022. Retrieved 12 October 2013. "Limits of the eye's
--
       ISBN 978-1-259-08109-5. Archived from the original on 8 October
       2022. Retrieved 18 October 2013. "Normally the human eye responds
       to light rays from 390 to 760 nm. This can be extended to a range
       of 310 to 1,050 nm under artificial conditions."
   17. ^ Saidman, Jean (15 May 1933). "Sur la visibilité de l'ultraviolet
--
       October 2013. Retrieved 21 October 2013.
   18. ^ Oldford, R. W; MacKay, R. J (2000). "Scientific Method,
       Statistical Method and the Speed of Light". Statistical Science. 15
       (3): 254–278. doi:10.1214/ss/1009212817. MR 1847825. Archived from
       the original on 24 March 2017. Retrieved 21 August 2008.
   19. ^ ^a ^b Newcomb, Simon (1911). "Light" . In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.).
       Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 16 (11th ed.). Cambridge University
       Press. p. 624.
   20. ^ Michelson, A.A. (January 1927). "Measurements of the velocity of
       light between Mount Wilson and Mount San Antonio". Astrophysical
       Journal. 65: 1. Bibcode:1927ApJ....65....1M. doi:10.1086/143021.
   21. ^ Harvard News Office (24 January 2001). "Harvard Gazette:
       Researchers now able to stop, restart light". News.harvard.edu.
       Archived from the original on 28 October 2011. Retrieved 8 November
       2011.
--
   25. ^ "Reference Solar Spectral Irradiance: Air Mass 1.5". Archived
       from the original on 12 May 2019. Retrieved 12 November 2009.
   26. ^ Tang, Hong (1 October 2009). "May The Force of Light Be With
       You". IEEE Spectrum. 46 (10): 46–51.
       doi:10.1109/MSPEC.2009.5268000. S2CID 7928030.
--
   35. ^ Singh, S. (2009). Fundamentals of Optical Engineering. Discovery
       Publishing House. ISBN 978-81-8356-436-6.
   36. ^ O'Connor, J J; Robertson, E F (August 2002). "Light through the
       ages: Ancient Greece to Maxwell". Archived from the original on 19
       March 2017. Retrieved 20 February 2017.
--
       Sifuae.com. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 May 2015.
       Retrieved 29 August 2017.
   39. ^ ^a ^b Theories of light, from Descartes to Newton A.I. Sabra CUP
       Archive,1981 p. 48 ISBN 978-0-521-28436-3
   40. ^ Fokko Jan Dijksterhuis, Lenses and Waves: Christiaan Huygens and
--
       Natural and Experimental Philosophy. London: W. Savage for The
       Royal Institution. p. 117.
   45. ^ James R. Hofmann, André-Marie Ampère: Enlightenment and
       Electrodynamics, Cambridge University Press, 1996, p. 222.
   46. ^ David Cassidy; Gerald Holton; James Rutherford (2002).
--
External links

     * Media related to Light at Wikimedia Commons
     *

   The dictionary definition of light at Wiktionary

     Quotations related to Light at Wikiquote

     * v
--
     * Acoustic radiation force
     * Infrared
     * Light
     * Starlight
     * Sunlight
     * Microwave
     * Radio waves
--
   Color physics
     * Electromagnetic spectrum
          + Light
          + Rainbow
          + Visible
--
          + Achromatic colors (Neutral)
          + Polychromatic colors
     * Light-on-dark
     * Web colors
     * Tinctures in heraldry
--
          + Pastel colors
     * Luminance
          + Lightness
          + Darkness
          + Brightness
--
          + Contrast
     * Qualia
     * Lighting

     * Category
--

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Light&oldid=1328592629"

   Categories:
     * Light
     * Electromagnetic radiation

--

   [ ] Toggle the table of contents
   Light
   (BUTTON) 182 languages Add topic
