Recite dhikr that are light for the tongue to remember but heavy on


(The Light)


light of all the worlds. His light illuminates the heart and provides


clarity and guidance. Anyone who turns their back to the true light


Arabic connotations: to give light, to illuminate, to fill with light,


lighten, give counsel, and give advice.


Allah's Light Described:


The light of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ as described in the hadith


deeds of the night. His veil is the light. In the hadith narrated by


light"), it is fire. If he withdraws it


7:143 So we learn that Allah's light is too powerful to be witnessed,


وَتَعَٰلَىٰ is Al-Nur (The Light), it is not meant in the literal


sense. The light we see is created and is not eternal. It gets emitted,


understood by the consequence and the properties of light. Light


Darkness is the absence of light; when we have no light, what remains


A second interpretation is light manifests; it makes things that are


hidden - visible. His light operates at many levels. There is nothing


As-Sami (All-Hearing). His light reveals, and nothing escapes His view.


lights upon light. From the darkness of nonexistence to the light of


overlooking much. There has come to you from Allah a light and a clear


light of the heaven and the earth." Everything that comes


from Him comes through His light. To contrast, Shaykh Tosun Bayrak


mentions how "the light of faith eliminates the darknesses of


infidelity and sin within and without, bringing us to the light of


light of Faith."


وَتَعَٰلَىٰ. We can bring light into our life and the world, by and


"Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. The example of His


light is like a niche within which is a lamp, the lamp is within glass,


would almost glow even if untouched by fire. Light upon light. Allah


guides to His light whom He wills. And Allah presents examples for the


We can ask Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ to bless us with His light


"O Allah, place light in my heart, and on my tongue light, and in my


ears light and in my sight light, and above me light, and below me


light, and to my right light, and to my left light, and before me light


and behind me light. Place in my soul light. Magnify for me light, and


amplify for me light. Make for me light and make me a light. O Allah,


grant me light, and place light in my nerves, and in my body light and


in my blood light and in my hair light and in my skin light. [O Allah,


make for me a light in my grave... and a light in my bones.] [Increase


me in light, increase me in light, increase me in light.] [Grant me


light upon light.]"


Reflecting on your light:


Every person has a light that emanates from them. The intensity at


a moth to a flame, attracting others because of their light and


light proceeding before them and on their right, [it will be said],


some of your light.” It will be said, “Go back behind you and seek


light.” And a wall will be placed between them with a door, its


light so we don't suffer the fate of those who get left behind because


their light was too weak. The du'a has been underlined below for your


disgrace the Prophet and those who believed with him. Their light will


perfect for us our light and forgive us. Indeed, You are over all


