       reality.
       Tasbih Counterchevron_right
       Recite dhikr that are light for the tongue to remember but heavy on
       the scales.
       Third of Night Calculatorchevron_right
--
An-Noor/Al-Nur

   (The Light)

An-Nur Meaning:
--
   Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ call himself An-Noor (in Arabic:
   ٱلْنُّورُ), meaning The One who illuminates and reveals the divine
   light of all the worlds. His light illuminates the heart and provides
   clarity and guidance. Anyone who turns their back to the true light
   will be in darkness.
   [svg%3E] [section-divide.png]
--
   Arabic Root:
   From the root nun-waw-ra (ن و ر), which has the following classical
   Arabic connotations: to give light, to illuminate, to fill with light,
   to clarify, to reveal, to make visible, to blossom, to be in bloom
   (revealed), to be flaming, blazing and apparent to the senses, to
   enlighten, give counsel, and give advice.

   Allah's Light Described:
   The light of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ as described in the hadith
   and Qur'an, Abu Musa reported: The Messenger of Allah ﷺ was standing
   amongst us and he told us five things. He said: Verily the Exalted and
--
   lowers the scale and lifts it. The deeds in the night are taken up to
   Him before the deeds of the day, and the deeds of the day before the
   deeds of the night. His veil is the light. In the hadith narrated by
   Abu Bakr (instead of the word "light"), it is fire. If he withdraws it
   (the veil), the splendor of His countenance would consume His creation
   so far as His sight reaches.^ [1]
--
   unconscious. And when he awoke, he said, 'Exalted are You! I have
   repented to You, and I am the first of the believers.'" Qur'an 7:143 So
   we learn that Allah's light is too powerful to be witnessed, "Vision
   perceives Him not, but He perceives [all] vision; and He is the Subtle,
   the Acquainted." (Qur'an 6:103)
--
   The Various Interpretations:
   It may be obvious, but worth mentioning. When we say Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ is Al-Nur (The Light), it is not meant in the literal
   sense. The light we see is created and is not eternal. It gets emitted,
   absorbed, reflected, and refracted. Most scholars agree for it to be a
   name and attribute of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ it must be
   understood by the consequence and the properties of light. Light
   illuminates, makes things visible, and shows the way through the
   darkness. This leads to many interpretations of the name An-Nur which
--

   The first understanding is through His ability to manifest creation.
   Darkness is the absence of light; when we have no light, what remains
   is darkness. Similarly, it can be said if something did not exist, it
   was hidden or unknown. Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ has the power to
--
   36:82, they would not be known.

   A second interpretation is light manifests; it makes things that are
   hidden - visible. His light operates at many levels. There is nothing
   that can be hidden from Him. He is the Al-Baseer (All-Seeing) and
   As-Sami (All-Hearing). His light reveals, and nothing escapes His view.
   "And with Him are the keys of the unseen; none knows them except Him.
   And He knows what is on the land and in the sea. Not a leaf falls but
--
   He also illuminates mankind through His book and His Messengers (may
   peace be upon them). He's a guide to those lost. So, in this sense, He
   lights upon light. From the darkness of nonexistence to the light of
   existence, from unguided to guided.
   يَـٰٓأَهۡلَ ٱلۡكِتَٰبِ قَدۡ جَآءَكُمۡ رَسُولُنَا يُبَيِّنُ لَكُمۡ
--
   "O People of the Scripture, there has come to you Our Messenger making
   clear to you much of what you used to conceal of the Scripture and
   overlooking much. There has come to you from Allah a light and a clear
   Book." — (Qur'an 5:15)

   The Darkness Within:
   Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ describes Himself in verse 35 of Surah
   Nur as the "light of the heaven and the earth." Everything that comes
   from Him comes through His light. To contrast, Shaykh Tosun Bayrak
   mentions how "the light of faith eliminates the darknesses of
   infidelity and sin within and without, bringing us to the light of
   Truth and salvation and serenity. The devil, and one's own devil, the
   ego, are those who like to operate in darkness and enter dark houses
   they will not enter that Divine house, the heart illuminated by the
   light of Faith."

   The darkness in the believer is their ego. It calls us to pursue
   pleasure and things prohibited to pull us from Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ. We can bring light into our life and the world, by and
   large, through following the commandments of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ. By keeping ties of kinship, spreading peace, oppressing
--

   English Translation:
   "Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. The example of His
   light is like a niche within which is a lamp, the lamp is within glass,
   the glass as if it were a pearly [white] star lit from [the oil of] a
   blessed olive tree, neither of the east nor of the west, whose oil
   would almost glow even if untouched by fire. Light upon light. Allah
   guides to His light whom He wills. And Allah presents examples for the
   people, and Allah is Knowing of all things." — (Qur'an 24:35)

   Supplication of Prophet Muhammad ﷺ:
   We can ask Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ to bless us with His light
   just as Prophet Muhammad ﷺ taught the sahabah.^ [2]
   اللّهُـمَّ اجْعَـلْ فِي قَلْبـي نُوراً وَفي لِسَـانِي نُوراً وَفِي
--

   English Translation:
   "O Allah, place light in my heart, and on my tongue light, and in my
   ears light and in my sight light, and above me light, and below me
   light, and to my right light, and to my left light, and before me light
   and behind me light. Place in my soul light. Magnify for me light, and
   amplify for me light. Make for me light and make me a light. O Allah,
   grant me light, and place light in my nerves, and in my body light and
   in my blood light and in my hair light and in my skin light. [O Allah,
   make for me a light in my grave... and a light in my bones.] [Increase
   me in light, increase me in light, increase me in light.] [Grant me
   light upon light.]"

   Reflecting on your light:
   Every person has a light that emanates from them. The intensity at
   which it shines is determined by their upright character and the
   righteousness of their deeds. Every good you do illuminates the path
   toward paradise, and every evil takes from it. The intention of the
   believer, then, should be to focus on ways in which their being is like
   a moth to a flame, attracting others because of their light and
   goodness.
   يَوۡمَ تَرَى ٱلۡمُؤۡمِنِينَ وَٱلۡمُؤۡمِنَٰتِ يَسۡعَىٰ نُورُهُم بَيۡنَ
--
   English Translation:
   "(12) On the Day you see the believing men and believing women, their
   light proceeding before them and on their right, [it will be said],
   “Your good tidings today are [of] gardens beneath which rivers flow,
   wherein you will abide eternally.” That is what is the great
   attainment. (13) On the [same] Day the hypocrite men and hypocrite
   women will say to those who believed, “Wait for us that we may acquire
   some of your light.” It will be said, “Go back behind you and seek
   light.” And a wall will be placed between them with a door, its
   interior containing mercy, but on the outside of it is torment." —
   (Qur'an 57:12-13)

   Ask Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ for forgiveness and to increase your
   light so we don't suffer the fate of those who get left behind because
   their light was too weak. The du'a has been underlined below for your
   reference.
   يَـٰٓأَيُّهَا ٱلَّذِينَ ءَامَنُواْ تُوبُوٓاْ إِلَى ٱللَّهِ تَوۡبَةٗ
--
   Perhaps your Lord will remove from you your misdeeds and admit you into
   gardens beneath which rivers flow [on] the Day when Allah will not
   disgrace the Prophet and those who believed with him. Their light will
   proceed before them and on their right; they will say, 'Our Lord,
   perfect for us our light and forgive us. Indeed, You are over all
   things competent.'" — (Qur'an 66:8)

