   Request Appointment

Seasonal affective disorder treatment: Choosing a light box

   Print
--
   lbs, or 25+ lbs

Seasonal affective disorder treatment: Choosing a light box

   Light therapy boxes can offer an effective treatment for seasonal
   affective disorder. Features such as light intensity, safety, cost and
   style are important considerations.
   By Mayo Clinic Staff

   Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a type of depression that
   typically occurs each year during fall and winter. Use of a light box
   can offer relief. But for some people, light therapy may be more
   effective when combined with another SAD treatment, such as an
   antidepressant or psychotherapy, also called talk therapy.

   Light boxes are designed to deliver a therapeutic dose of bright light
   to treat symptoms of SAD. There are many different types of light
   boxes. All light boxes for SAD treatment are designed do the same
   thing, but one may work better for you than another.

--

   It's best to talk with your health care provider about choosing and
   using a light box. If you're experiencing both SAD and bipolar
   disorder, the advisability and timing of using a light box should be
   carefully reviewed with your health care provider. Increasing exposure
   too fast or using the light box for too long each time may induce manic
   symptoms if you have bipolar disorder.

   If you have past or current eye problems such as glaucoma, cataracts or
   eye damage from diabetes, get advice from your eye specialist before
   starting light therapy.

Understanding a light box

   A light therapy box mimics outdoor light. It's thought that this type
   of light may cause a chemical change in the brain that lifts your mood
   and eases other symptoms of SAD, such as being tired most of the time
   and sleeping too much.

   Generally, the light box should:
     * Provide an exposure to 10,000 lux of light
     * Produce as little UV light as possible

   Typical recommendations include using the light box:
     * Within the first hour of waking up in the morning
     * For about 20 to 30 minutes
     * About 16 to 24 inches (41 to 61 centimeters) from your face, but
       follow the manufacturer's instructions about distance
     * With eyes open, but not looking directly at the light

   Light boxes aren't regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
   for SAD treatment, so it's important to understand your options.

   You can buy a light box without a prescription, but it's best to use it
   under the guidance of a health care provider and follow the
   manufacturer's guidelines. Your health care provider may recommend a
   specific light box. Most health insurance plans don't cover the cost.

What to consider

   Here are some questions to think about when buying a light box for
   seasonal affective disorder:
     * Is it made specifically to treat SAD? If not, it may not help your
       depression. Some light therapy lamps are designed for skin
       disorders — not for SAD. Lamps used for skin disorders mainly
       produce ultraviolet (UV) light and could damage your eyes if used
       incorrectly.
     * How bright is it? Light boxes produce different intensities of
       light. Brighter boxes will require less time to use each day,
       compared with dimmer boxes, to achieve the same effect. Usually,
       the recommended intensity of light is 10,000 lux.
     * How much UV light does it release? Light boxes for SAD should be
       designed to filter out most or all UV light. Contact the
       manufacturer for safety information if you have questions.
     * Can it cause eye damage? Some light boxes include features designed
       to protect the eyes. Make sure the light box filters out most or
       all UV light to avoid damaging your eyes. Ask your eye specialist
       for advice on choosing a light box if you have eye problems such as
       glaucoma, cataracts or eye damage from diabetes.
     * Is it the style you need? Light boxes come in different shapes and
       sizes, with varied features. Some look like upright lamps, while
       others are small and rectangular. Smaller light boxes are more
       portable and easier to pack if you're traveling during fall and
       winter. The effectiveness of a light box depends on daily use, so
       buy one that's convenient for you.
     * Can you put it in the right location? Think about where you'll want
       to place your light box and what you might do during its use, such
       as reading, doing a craft or watching TV. Check the manufacturer's
       instructions, so you receive the right amount of light at the
       proper distance.

   Talk to your health care provider about light box options and
   recommendations, so you get one that's best suited to your needs.


   There is a problem with information submitted for this request.
   Review/update the information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
--
       https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/seasonal-affective-dis
       order/. Accessed Dec. 21, 2021.
    3. Bais B, et al. Light therapy for mood disorders. In: Handbook of
       Clinical Neurology, Vol. 182. Elsevier; 2021.
       doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-819973-2.00004-6. Accessed Dec. 22, 2021.
--
    7. Medical review (expert opinion). Mayo Clinic. Jan. 29, 2022.
    8. Oldham MA, et al. Commercially available phototherapy devices for
       treatment of depression: Physical characteristics of emitted light.
       Psychiatric Research & Clinical Practice. 2019;1:56.

--
   ART-20048298
    1. Home
    2. Seasonal affective disorder treatment Choosing a light box

3X your impact!
