Aurora

   An aurora is a natural light display that shimmers in the sky. Auroras
   are only visible at night, and usually only appear in lower polar
   regions.
--
   (BUTTON) Article (BUTTON) Vocabulary

   An aurora is a natural light display that shimmers in the sky. Blue,
   red, yellow, green, and orange lights shift gently and change shape
   like softly blowing curtains. Auroras are only visible at night, and
   usually only appear in lower polar regions.
--
   Circles, which are about 66.5 degrees north and south of the Equator.
   In the north, the display is called aurora borealis, or northern
   lights. In the south, it is called aurora australis, or southern
   lights.
   Auroras and the Solar Wind
   The activity that creates auroras begins on the sun. The sun is a ball
--
   interaction produces a red glow. This is an unusual aurora—the most
   familiar display, a green-yellow hue, occurs as ions strike oxygen at
   lower altitudes. Reddish and bluish light that often appears in the
   lower fringes of auroras is produced by ions striking atoms of
   nitrogen. Ions striking hydrogen and helium atoms can produce blue and
   purple auroras, although our eyes can rarely detect this part of the
   electromagnetic spectrum.
   To find out more about the mysterious light displays, scientists have
   launched satellites specially designed to study auroras. Until 2005,
   NASA’s IMAGE (Imager for Magnetopause-to-Aurora Global Exploration)
--

   Dawn Wind
   The aurora borealis, or northern lights, was studied by ancient Roman
   and Greek astronomers. The phenomenon was named for the Roman goddess
   of the dawn, Aurora, and the Greek god of the north wind, Boreas.
--
   Fox Fire
   In Finland, the aurora borealis is called revontulet, which literally
   translates to fox fires. According to one Finnish folk tale, the lights
   are caused by a magical fox sweeping his tail across the snow and
   sending sparks up into the sky.
--

   National Geographic Adventure: Solar Storm Headed for Earth Tonight—May
   Spawn AurorasNational Geographic Science: Auroras—Heavenly Lights

Images
