   AI solves 'impossible' math problems
   An artist&#039;s impression of GRB 250702B, a bright white orb with
   rays of light coming out among a white and pink cloud surrounded by the
   blackness of space.
   Astronomy Strange, 7-hour explosion from deep space is unlike anything
--
   digging into the decades-old mystery.
   Extraterrestrial Life Scientists are debating a 70-year-old UFO mystery
   as new images come to light
   Rainbow colored iridescent semiconductor wafer extreme close-up studio
   shot.
--
   an illustration of a brain in a futuristic, digital style
   Computing Scientists say they've eliminated a major AI bottleneck — now
   they can process calculations 'at the speed of light'
   A colorful simulation of galaxies connected by tendrils of gas
   Particle Physics Historic search for 'huge missing piece' of the
--

   Photons are fundamental subatomic particles that carry the
   electromagnetic force — or, in simpler terms, they are light particles
   (and so much more). The photon is also the "quantum," or fundamental
   unit, of electromagnetic radiation. Everyone is surrounded by photons:
   The light coming from the screen you're viewing is composed of photons,
   the X-rays doctor use to see bones are made of photons, the radio in a
   car receives its signal from photons, and the magnets on a fridge use
--
   duality, meaning that sometimes they behave as tiny particles and
   sometimes they act as waves. Photons are massless, allowing them to
   travel at the speed of light in a vacuum (299,792,458 meters per
   second) and can travel an infinite distance.

Photon discovery

   Although physicists have studied the nature of light for centuries,
   arguments went back and forth as to whether light was made of tiny
   particles or was wave-like in nature. In the late 1800s, however, the
   pioneering work of German physicist Max Planck changed the entire
--

   You may like
     * An image of two shapes made out of red light. On the left, a
       rectangular prism. On the right, a series of vertical lines that
       form the shape of a circle. Physicists capture rare illusion of an
       object moving at 99.9% the speed of light
     * a 3D rendering of colorful bubble shapes For the first time,
       physicists peer inside the nucleus of a molecule using electrons as
--
       Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle without breaking it

   Planck was studying something called blackbody radiation, or light from
   a special device that emitted light at all frequencies as efficiently
   as possible. Until Planck, nobody could explain the spectrum of light
   coming from these devices, so Planck added a "fix" to the equations. By
   assuming that light could be emitted only in discrete chunks of energy,
   known as quanta, he was able to develop a formula that perfectly
   explained the blackbody spectra, according to HyperPhysics.
--
   several years later, Albert Einstein took it one step further. To
   explain the photoelectric effect, which is the release of electrons
   from a metal when light shines on it, Einstein proposed that light
   itself is composed of discrete little chunks, according to the American
   Physical Society. Over time, those little chunks became known as
   photons.

   The work of Planck, Einstein and others to study the nature of light
   kick-started the development of quantum mechanics.

--

   This concept is best exemplified by the famous double-slit experiment,
   which solidified the dual wave-particle nature of light (and,
   eventually, other subatomic particles). When light passes through a
   screen with two slits cut into it, it forms an interference pattern on
   the detector on the other side of the screen, where the peaks of waves
--

   You may like
     * An image of two shapes made out of red light. On the left, a
       rectangular prism. On the right, a series of vertical lines that
       form the shape of a circle. Physicists capture rare illusion of an
       object moving at 99.9% the speed of light
     * a 3D rendering of colorful bubble shapes For the first time,
       physicists peer inside the nucleus of a molecule using electrons as
--
       Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle without breaking it

   Diffraction of light. Double slit experiment. Young light wave theory.
   The double-slit experiment shows that light acts like both a particle
   and a wave. (Image credit: grayjay via Shutterstock)

--

   Photons have zero mass, which allows them to travel at the fastest
   possible speed in the universe, the speed of light. However, they do
   have energy and momentum. The energy of a photon is given by Planck's
   constant times the frequency of the light, and the momentum of a photon
   is given by Planck's constant times the frequency of the light times
   the speed of light, according to the University of Calgary's Energy
   Education website.

   The fact that photons have momentum enables a broad array of
   applications. For example, solar sails are experimental propulsion
   devices that use sunlight to push a spacecraft. According to NASA, the
   photons from the sun bounce off of the reflecting sail, thus imparting
   their momentum on the sail and moving the spacecraft.
--
   Our understanding of the rate of the passage of time comes from
   Einstein's theory of special relativity, which states that objects
   traveling closer and closer to the speed of light will experience
   slower and slower rates of the passage of time. In other words, moving
   clocks run slowly, according to John D. Horton of the University of
--

   However, the mathematics of special relativity apply only to objects
   traveling more slowly than the speed of light and don't apply directly
   to photons, which do travel at the speed of light. Thus, it's
   impossible to say what a photon "experiences" in terms of the flow of
   time, because scientists have no mathematical language to support it.
--
Additional resources

     * You can dig deeper into the relationship between light and time in
       this YouTube video hosted by the author of this article,
       astrophysicist Paul M. Sutter.
--

   Hall, L. (2021, October 6). Advanced composite solar sail system: Using
   sunlight to power deep space exploration. NASA.
   https://www.nasa.gov/directorates/spacetech/small_spacecraft/ACS3

--
   https://earthsky.org/space/what-is-gravitational-lensing-einstein-ring/
   #:~:text=Gravitational%20lensing%20occurs%20when%20massive,bending%20an
   d%20magnifying%20the%20light
   Paul Sutter
   Paul Sutter
--

   Read more
   An image of two shapes made out of red light. On the left, a
   rectangular prism. On the right, a series of vertical lines that form
   the shape of a circle.
   Physicists capture rare illusion of an object moving at 99.9% the speed
   of light


--
       bones in Ukraine
    3. 3
       Tiny implant 'speaks' to the brain with LED light
    4. 4
       Cats meow more at men to get their attention, study suggests
