* [54]Underwater Light


* [55]Why Animals Light Up


* [60]Underwater Light


* [64]Why Animals Light Up


fireflies produce light through a chemical reaction in their glowing


seascapes can also glow and glitter thanks to the light producing


abilities of [71]many marine organisms? Some fish dangle a lighted lure


to show their light off, but often animals light up in response to an


Underwater Light


A photo of a lanternfish with its nasal light organ illuminated.


light-producing photophores along its ventral surface (belly), and a


nasal light organ that acts like a headlight. (E. Widder, ORCA,


light energy within an organism's body. For a reaction to occur, a


oxygen, produces light. There are different types of luciferin, which


Animals can closely control when they light up by regulating their


bioluminescence bomb—that is ready to light up the moment a certain ion


and color of the lights.


the chemicals responsible for its light. (E. Widder, ORCA,


bioluminescent creatures to gain the ability to light up. For example,


the [77]Hawaiian bobtail squid has a special light organ that is


light are evidence that bioluminescence has evolved many times over—at


Most deep-sea animals produce some bioluminescent light, but the


light and a [79]sparkly sheen as they move


Light travels in waves of different shapes—known as wavelengths—which


determine the color of the light. When the waves hit our eyes, they are


The wavelengths that our eyes can see are known as the "visible light


travel through the air above land. But light travels differently


light. This is because these colors are shorter wavelengths of light,


water. Light traveling from the sun of longer wavelengths—such as red


light—doesn't reach the deep sea. This is why many deep sea animals are


light, including the dragonfish (Malacosteus). By creating their own


red light in the deep sea, they are able to see red-colored prey, as


unsuspecting animals cannot see their red lights as a warning to flee.


Why Animals Light Up


Animals can use their light to lure prey towards their mouths, or even


to light up the area nearby so that they can see their next meal a bit


[84]Stauroteuthis octopus. But the light can also fool larger animals.


light fish and ponyfish all are thought to luminesce


out against the light above it. At right, with bioluminescent


out against the light above it. At right, with bioluminescent


can match the dim light coming from the surface, making it harder for


A light painted image of a hand-painted ceramic fish with light


Using a photographic technique called light painting, this image


captures light emitted from a ceramic fish's mouth. (Flickr User


beautiful colors and light that are produced by bioluminescence can be


would be lured to a bioluminescent light attached to a fake squid—not


light "burglar alarm" could mean that there was larger prey in the


lightandcolor/humanvisionintro/


Light-is-Much-Better-Down-Where-its-Wetter-192132481.html


light-painting-tutorial


