   by Chris Woodford. Last updated: November 28, 2024.

   Lasers are amazing light beams powerful enough to zoom miles into the
   sky or cut through lumps of metal. Although they seem pretty recent
   inventions, they've actually been with us over half a century: the
--

   The basic idea of a laser is simple. It's a tube that concentrates
   light over and over again until it emerges in a really powerful beam.
   But how does this happen, exactly? What's going on inside a laser?
   Let's take a closer look!
--
    1. What is a laser?
    2. How lasers work
    3. How do lasers make light?
          + Spontaneous emission
          + Stimulated emission
          + What makes laser light so different?
    4. Types of lasers
    5. What are lasers used for?
--
What is a laser?

   Lasers are more than just powerful flashlights.

   The difference between ordinary light and laser light is like the
   difference between ripples in your bathtub and huge waves on the sea.
   You've probably noticed that if you move your hands back and forth in
--
   Imagine doing this a few million times in the open ocean. Before long,
   you'd have mountainous waves towering over your head! A laser does
   something similar with light waves. It starts off with weak light and
   keeps adding more and more energy so the light waves become ever more
   concentrated.

   Photo: It's much easier to make laser beams follow precise paths than
   ordinary light beams, as in this experiment to develop better solar
   cells. Picture by Warren Gretz courtesy of US DOE/NREL (Department of
   Energy/National Renewable Energy Laboratory).
--
   If you've even seen a laser in a science lab, you'll have noticed two
   very important differences straightaway:
     * Where a flashlight produces "white" light (a mixture of all
       different colors, made by light waves of all different
       frequencies), a laser makes what's called monochromatic light (of a
       single, very precise frequency and color—often bright red or green
       or an invisible "color" such as infrared or ultraviolet).
     * Where a flashlight beam spreads out through a lens into a short and
       fairly fuzzy cone, a laser shoots a much tighter, narrower beam
       over a much longer distance (we say it's highly collimated).

   There's a third important difference you won't have noticed:
     * Where the light waves in a flashlight beam are all jumbled up (with
       the crests of some beams mixed with the troughs of others), the
       waves in laser light are exactly in step: the crest of every wave
       is lined up with the crest of every other wave. We say laser light
       is coherent. Think of a flashlight beam as a crowd of commuters,
       pushing and shoving, jostling their way down the platform of a
       railroad station; by comparison, a laser beam is like a parade of
--

   Before you can understand how a laser works, you need to know how an
   atom can give off light. If you're not sure how this happens, take a
   look at the box how atoms make light in our introductory article about
   light.

   A laser is effectively a machine that makes billions of atoms pump out
   trillions of photons (light particles) all at once so they line up to
   form a really concentrated light beam.

What do you need to make a laser?
--
   medium, shown in the artwork below as a red bar) with a flash tube
   (yellow zig-zag lines) wrapped around it. The flash tube looks a bit
   like a fluorescent strip light, only it's coiled around the ruby
   crystal and it flashes every so often like a camera's flash lamp.

--
       electrons jump to a higher energy level. After a few milliseconds,
       the electrons return to their original energy level (ground state)
       by giving off a photon of light (small blue blobs). This is called
       spontaneous emission.
    4. The photons that atoms give off zoom up and down inside the ruby
       crystal, traveling at the speed of light.
    5. Every so often, one of these photons stimulates an already excited
       atom. When this happens, the excited atom gives off a photon and we
       get our original photon back as well. This is called stimulated
       emission. Now one photon of light has produced two, so the light
       has been amplified (increased in strength). In other words, "light
       amplification"(an increase in the amount of light) has been caused
       by "stimulated emission of radiation" (hence the name "laser",
       because that's exactly how a laser works!)
--
       back into the crystal but lets some escape.
    8. The escaping photons form a very concentrated beam of powerful
       laser light.

   Sponsored links
--
   Atoms Under the Floorboards banner promotion [INS: :INS]

How do lasers make light?

   If that's as much detail as you want to know about lasers, you can stop
--
   detail, and a little bit more "theoretically."

   You'll often read in books that "laser" stands for Light Amplification
   by Stimulated Emission of Radiation. That's a complex and confusing
   mouthful but, if you pull it apart slowly, it's actually a very clear
   explanation of how lasers make their super-powerful beams of light.

Spontaneous emission
--
   Geiger counters click, which atoms spew out when they smash together or
   fall apart. Lasers make electromagnetic radiation, just like ordinary
   light, radio waves, X rays, and infrared. Although it's still produced
   by atoms, they make ("emit") it in a totally different way, when
   electrons jump up and down inside them. We can think of electrons in
--
   atom's excited—but it's also unstable. It very quickly returns to the
   ground state by giving off the energy it absorbed as a photon (a
   particle of light). We call this process spontaneous emission of
   radiation: the atom is giving off light (emitting radiation) all by
   itself (spontaneously).

   Flame, wick, and melted wax on top of a candle

   Photo: Spontaneous emission—by candlelight.

   From candles to light bulbs and fireflies to flashlights, all
   conventional forms of light work through the process of spontaneous
   emission. In a candle, combustion (the chemical reaction between oxygen
   and fuel, in this case, wax) excites atoms and makes them unstable.
   They give off light when they return to their original (ground) states.
   Every photon produced by spontaneous emission inside this candle flame
   is different from every other photon, which is why there's a mixture of
   different wavelengths (and colors), making "white" light. The photons
   emerge in random directions, with waves that are out of step with one
   another ("out of phase"), which is why candlelight is much weaker than
   laser light.

Stimulated emission
--
   Normally, a typical bunch of atoms would have more electrons in their
   ground states than their excited states, which is one reason why atoms
   don't spontaneously give off light. But what if we excited those
   atoms—pumped them full of energy—so their electrons were in excited
   states. In that case, the "population" of excited electrons would be
   bigger than the "population" in their ground states, so there would be
   plenty of electrons ready and willing to make photons of light. We call
   this situation a population inversion, because the usual state of
   affairs in the atoms is swapped around (inverted).
--
   get radiation out of them, this process is called stimulated emission.
   We get two photons out after putting one photon in, effectively
   doubling our light and amplifying it (increasing it). These two photons
   can stimulate other atoms to give off more photons, so, pretty soon, we
   get a cascade of photons—a chain reaction—throwing out a brilliant beam
   of pure, coherent laser light. What we've done here is amplify light
   using stimulated emission of radiation—and that's how a laser gets its
   name.
--
   out a quantum (packet of energy) as a photon (green wiggle). Right:
   Stimulated emission: Fire a photon near a bunch of excited atoms and
   you can trigger a cascade of identical photons. One photon of light
   triggers many, so what we've got here is light amplification (making
   more light) by stimulated emission of (electromagnetic)
   radiation—LASER!.

What makes laser light so different?

   If that's how lasers make light, why do they make a single color and a
   coherent beam? It boils down to the idea that energy can only exist in
   fixed packets, each of which is called a quantum. It's a bit like
--
   two energy levels. When electrons flip back down from their excited to
   their ground state, they give out the same, precise amount of energy,
   which takes the form of a photon of light of a particular color.
   Stimulated emission in lasers makes electrons produce a cascade of
   identical photons—identical in energy, frequency, wavelength—and that's
   why laser light is monochromatic. The photons produced are equivalent
   to waves of light whose crests and troughs line up (in other words,
   they are "in phase")—and that's what makes laser light coherent.

   Sponsored links
--
   be doped, a process that replaces some of the solid's atoms with ions
   of impurities, giving it just the right energy levels to produce laser
   light of a certain, precise frequency.

   Ruby red laser and red beam.
--
   the medium, pumped by something like an arc lamp, a flash lamp, or
   another laser. Their big advantage is that they can be used to produce
   a broader band of light frequencies than solid-state and gas lasers,
   and they can even be "tuned" to produce different frequencies. [2]

--
   Photo: Dye laser: This dye laser (top layer) is used to separate
   different isotopes (atomic forms) of uranium for nuclear power
   production. It absorbs green, copper-vapor laser light from optical
   fibers (bottom layer) and uses it to produce an intense red-orange
   light at a very specific frequency. Photo courtesy of US Department of
   Energy.

--
   expensive, semiconductor lasers are cheap, tiny, chip-like devices used
   in things like CD players, laser printers, and barcode scanners. They
   work like a cross between a conventional Light-emitting diode (LED) and
   a traditional laser. Like an LED, they make light when electrons and
   "holes" (effectively, "missing electrons") hop about and join together;
   like a laser, they generate coherent, monochromatic light. That's why
   they're sometimes referred to as laser diodes (or diode lasers). You
   can read more about them in our separate article about semiconductor
--
   that scans discs inside a CD or DVD player. The small circle on the
   bottom right is a semiconductor laser diode, while the larger blue
   circle is the lens that reads the light from the laser after it's
   bounced off the shiny surface of the disc.

--
   effect, a doped fiber-optic cable becomes the amplifying medium.
   They're powerful, efficient, reliable, and make it easy to pipe laser
   light to wherever it's needed.

   Green femtosecond laser experiment.
--
   computer chip converts these numbers into movies, music, and sound.
   Along with fiber-optic cables, lasers are widely used in a technology
   called photonics—using photons of light to communicate, for example, to
   send vast streams of data back and forth over the Internet. Facebook is
   currently experimenting with using lasers (instead of radio waves) to
--
   Photo: Communicating with satellites (in this case, the Lunar
   Reconnaissance Orbiter) using lasers. Photo courtesy of NASA Goddard
   Space Flight Center.

Defense
--
   We can trace the birth of lasers right back to the first two decades of
   the 20th century. That's when Albert Einstein figured out the quantum
   theory of light and photons (in 1905) and the mechanism of stimulated
   emission (in 1917)—the two key components of laser science. But it was
   another four decades before the first practical laser actually
--

   Lasers evolved from masers, which are similar but produce microwaves
   and radio waves instead of visible light. Masers were invented in the
   1950s by Charles Townes and Arthur Schawlow, both of whom went on to
   win the Nobel Prize in Physics for their work (Townes in 1964 and
--
   Artwork: The original maser designed in the late 1950s by Arthur
   Schawlow and Charles Townes, taken from their US Patent 2,929,922,
   which I've colored to highlight the main components. You can see how
   closely it resembles the laser in my artwork in the box up above.
   Artwork courtesy of US Patent and Trademark Office.
--
   But did they invent the laser? In 1957, one of Townes' graduate
   students, Gordon Gould, sketched in his lab notebook an idea for how a
   visible light version of the maser could work, coining the word "laser"
   that we've used ever since. Unfortunately, he didn't patent his idea at
   the time and had to devote the next 20 years of his life to legal
--

   Artwork: Gordon Gould's alternative laser is a very different design,
   but does essentially the same job: amplifying light. Artwork courtesy
   of US Patent and Trademark Office.

   Although Townes and Schawlow are often credited with inventing lasers,
   the first person to build a working, visible light laser was actually
   Theodore Maiman, who has never really gained the recognition he
   deserved: his original writeup of his work was rejected by the journal
--
     * Holograms
     * Laser printers
     * Light
     * Light-emitting diodes (LEDs)
     * Semiconductor lasers

--
       paintings to their former glory.
     * Wired: This Day in Tech: May 16, 1960: Researcher Shines a Laser
       Light by Randy Alfred, Wired, May 16, 2011. Explains how laser
       pioneer Theodore Maiman created the first ruby crystal laser.
     * The Race to Make the First Laser by Jeff Hecht. A short account of
--
     * Lasers by James Bow. Gareth Stevens, 2016. A 48-page introduction
       for ages 9–12.
     * Lasers: The Technology and Uses of Crafted Light by Charlene
       Billings and John Tabak. Facts on File, 2006. A deeper, 208-page
       overview for ages 10+ (also a good as a non-mathematical
       backgrounder for adult readers).
     * Science Pathways: Light by Chris Woodford. Rosen, 2012. One of my
       own books, this is the broader story of how scientists unraveled
       the mysteries of light. Ages 9–12. (Previously published by
       Blackbirch, 2004.)

