light beams powerful enough to zoom miles into


light over and over again until it emerges in a really powerful beam.


3. [20]How do lasers make light?


+ [23]What makes laser light so different?


lights.


The difference between ordinary light and laser light is like the


something similar with [31]light waves. It starts off with weak light


and keeps adding more and more [32]energy so the light waves become


ordinary light beams, as in this experiment to develop better [33]solar


* Where a flashlight produces "white" light (a mixture of all


different colors, made by light waves of all different


frequencies), a laser makes what's called monochromatic light (of a


light beam spreads out through a [35]lens into a short


* Where the light waves in a flashlight beam are all jumbled up (with


waves in laser light are exactly in step: the crest of every wave


is lined up with the crest of every other wave. We say laser light


light beam as a crowd of commuters,


[36]atom can give off light. If you're not sure how this happens, take


a look at the box [37]how atoms make light in our introductory article


about light.


light particles) all at once so they line up to


form a really concentrated light beam.


like a fluorescent strip light, only it's coiled around the ruby


by giving off a photon of light (small blue blobs). This is called


crystal, traveling at the speed of light.


emission. Now one photon of light has produced two, so the light


light


amplification"(an increase in the amount of light) has been caused


laser light.


How do lasers make light?


You'll often read in books that "laser" stands for Light Amplification


explanation of how lasers make their super-powerful beams of light.


light, [46]radio waves, [47]X rays, and infrared.


absorbed as a photon (a particle of light). We call this process


spontaneous emission of radiation: the atom is giving off light


light.


From candles to light bulbs and fireflies to flashlights, all


conventional forms of light work through the process of spontaneous


unstable. They give off light when they return to their original


light. The photons emerge in random directions, with waves that are out


light is


much weaker than laser light.


don't spontaneously give off light. But what if we excited those


plenty of electrons ready and willing to make photons of light. We call


doubling our light and amplifying it (increasing it). These two photons


of pure, coherent laser light. What we've done here is amplify light


you can trigger a cascade of identical photons. One photon of light


triggers many, so what we've got here is light amplification (making


more light) by stimulated emission of (electromagnetic)


What makes laser light so different?


If that's how lasers make light, why do they make a single color and a


which takes the form of a photon of light of a particular color.


why laser light is monochromatic. The photons produced are equivalent


to waves of light whose crests and troughs line up (in other words,


they are "in phase")—and that's what makes laser light coherent.


laser light of a certain, precise frequency.


a broader band of light frequencies than solid-state and gas lasers,


production. It absorbs green, copper-vapor laser light from optical


light at a very specific frequency. Photo courtesy of [55]US Department


Light-emitting diode (LED) and a traditional laser. Like an LED,


they make light when electrons and "holes" (effectively, "missing


coherent, monochromatic light. That's why they're sometimes referred to


circle is the lens that reads the light from the laser after it's


light to wherever it's needed.


technology called photonics—using photons of light to communicate, for


light Center.


quantum theory of light and photons (in 1905) and the mechanism of


and radio waves instead of visible light. Masers were invented in the


light the main components. You can see how


how a visible light version of the maser could work, coining the word


but does essentially the same job: amplifying light. Artwork courtesy


the first person to build a working, visible light laser was actually


Light


Light-emitting diodes (LEDs)


Laser Light by Randy Alfred, Wired, May 16, 2011. Explains how


* [114]Lasers: The Technology and Uses of Crafted Light by Charlene


* [115]Science Pathways: Light by Chris Woodford. Rosen, 2012. One of


the mysteries of light. Ages 9–12. (Previously published by


light.html


light


light.html


light.html#howatomsmakelight


light.html


light.html


Light/-ola7wUmghMC


