   Explain that Stuff

     * Home
     * A-Z index
     * Random article
     * Timeline
     * Teaching guide
     * About us
     * Privacy & cookies

   You are here: Home page > Science > Lasers

   Laser align experiment showing red, green, and yellow laser beams
   intersecting in a glass prism.

Lasers

     *
     *
     *
     *

       IFRAME:
       https://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ex
       plainthatstuff.com%2Flasers.html&width=90&layout=button_count&actio
       n=like&size=small&share=false&height=21&appId=1678539732394615

   by Chris Woodford. Last updated: November 28, 2024.

   Lasers are amazing light beams powerful enough to zoom miles into the
   sky or cut through lumps of metal. Although they seem pretty recent
   inventions, they've actually been with us over half a century: the
   theory was figured out in 1958; the first practical laser was built in
   1960. At that time, lasers were thrilling examples of cutting-edge
   science: secret agent 007, James Bond, was almost chopped in half by a
   laser beam in the 1964 film Goldfinger. But apart from Bond villains,
   no-one else had any idea what to do with lasers; famously, they were
   described as "a solution looking for a problem." [1] Today, we all have
   lasers in our homes (in CD and DVD players), in our offices (in laser
   printers), and in the stores where we shop (in barcode scanners). Our
   clothes are cut with lasers, we fix our eyesight with them, and we send
   and receive emails over the Internet with signals that lasers fire down
   fiber-optic cables. Whether we realize it or not, all of us use lasers
   all day long, but how many of us really understand what they are or how
   they work?

   The basic idea of a laser is simple. It's a tube that concentrates
   light over and over again until it emerges in a really powerful beam.
   But how does this happen, exactly? What's going on inside a laser?
   Let's take a closer look!

   Photo: A scientific experiment to check the alignment of optical
   equipment using laser beams, carried out at the US Navy's Naval Surface
   Warfare Center (NSWC). Photo by Greg Vojtko courtesy of US Navy and
   Wikimedia Commons.

   Sponsored links

   Atoms Under the Floorboards banner promotion [INS: :INS]

Contents

    1. What is a laser?
    2. How lasers work
    3. How do lasers make light?
          + Spontaneous emission
          + Stimulated emission
          + What makes laser light so different?
    4. Types of lasers
    5. What are lasers used for?
          + Tools
          + Communications
          + Defense
    6. Who invented lasers?
    7. Find out more

What is a laser?

   Lasers are more than just powerful flashlights.

   The difference between ordinary light and laser light is like the
   difference between ripples in your bathtub and huge waves on the sea.
   You've probably noticed that if you move your hands back and forth in
   the bathtub you can make quite strong waves. If you keep moving your
   hands in step with the waves you make, the waves get bigger and bigger.
   Imagine doing this a few million times in the open ocean. Before long,
   you'd have mountainous waves towering over your head! A laser does
   something similar with light waves. It starts off with weak light and
   keeps adding more and more energy so the light waves become ever more
   concentrated.

   Photo: It's much easier to make laser beams follow precise paths than
   ordinary light beams, as in this experiment to develop better solar
   cells. Picture by Warren Gretz courtesy of US DOE/NREL (Department of
   Energy/National Renewable Energy Laboratory).

   Laser beams follow precise paths between mirrors in a laboratory
   experiment.

   If you've even seen a laser in a science lab, you'll have noticed two
   very important differences straightaway:
     * Where a flashlight produces "white" light (a mixture of all
       different colors, made by light waves of all different
       frequencies), a laser makes what's called monochromatic light (of a
       single, very precise frequency and color—often bright red or green
       or an invisible "color" such as infrared or ultraviolet).
     * Where a flashlight beam spreads out through a lens into a short and
       fairly fuzzy cone, a laser shoots a much tighter, narrower beam
       over a much longer distance (we say it's highly collimated).

   There's a third important difference you won't have noticed:
     * Where the light waves in a flashlight beam are all jumbled up (with
       the crests of some beams mixed with the troughs of others), the
       waves in laser light are exactly in step: the crest of every wave
       is lined up with the crest of every other wave. We say laser light
       is coherent. Think of a flashlight beam as a crowd of commuters,
       pushing and shoving, jostling their way down the platform of a
       railroad station; by comparison, a laser beam is like a parade of
       soldiers all marching precisely in step.

   These three things make lasers precise, powerful, and amazingly useful
   beams of energy.

How lasers work

   Before you can understand how a laser works, you need to know how an
   atom can give off light. If you're not sure how this happens, take a
   look at the box how atoms make light in our introductory article about
   light.

   A laser is effectively a machine that makes billions of atoms pump out
   trillions of photons (light particles) all at once so they line up to
   form a really concentrated light beam.

What do you need to make a laser?

   We need two basic parts:
    1. A load of atoms (a solid, liquid, or gas) with electrons in them
       that we can stimulate. This is known as the medium or, sometimes,
       the amplifying or "gain" medium (because gain is another word for
       amplification).
    2. Something to stimulate the atoms with, such as a flash tube (like
       the xenon flash lamp in a camera) or another laser.

   A typical red laser would contain a long crystal made of ruby (the
   medium, shown in the artwork below as a red bar) with a flash tube
   (yellow zig-zag lines) wrapped around it. The flash tube looks a bit
   like a fluorescent strip light, only it's coiled around the ruby
   crystal and it flashes every so often like a camera's flash lamp.

How do the flash tube and the crystal make a laser beam?

   How a laser works
    1. A high-voltage electric supply makes the tube flash on and off.
    2. Every time the tube flashes, it "pumps" energy into the ruby
       crystal. The flashes it makes inject energy into the crystal in the
       form of photons.
    3. Atoms in the ruby crystal (large green blobs) soak up this energy
       in a process called absorption. Atoms absorb energy when their
       electrons jump to a higher energy level. After a few milliseconds,
       the electrons return to their original energy level (ground state)
       by giving off a photon of light (small blue blobs). This is called
       spontaneous emission.
    4. The photons that atoms give off zoom up and down inside the ruby
       crystal, traveling at the speed of light.
    5. Every so often, one of these photons stimulates an already excited
       atom. When this happens, the excited atom gives off a photon and we
       get our original photon back as well. This is called stimulated
       emission. Now one photon of light has produced two, so the light
       has been amplified (increased in strength). In other words, "light
       amplification"(an increase in the amount of light) has been caused
       by "stimulated emission of radiation" (hence the name "laser",
       because that's exactly how a laser works!)
    6. A mirror at one end of the laser tube keeps the photons bouncing
       back and forth inside the crystal.
    7. A partial mirror at the other end of the tube bounces some photons
       back into the crystal but lets some escape.
    8. The escaping photons form a very concentrated beam of powerful
       laser light.

   Sponsored links

   Atoms Under the Floorboards banner promotion [INS: :INS]

How do lasers make light?

   If that's as much detail as you want to know about lasers, you can stop
   reading now or skip further down the page to types of lasers. This
   section goes over the same points from the box above in a bit more
   detail, and a little bit more "theoretically."

   You'll often read in books that "laser" stands for Light Amplification
   by Stimulated Emission of Radiation. That's a complex and confusing
   mouthful but, if you pull it apart slowly, it's actually a very clear
   explanation of how lasers make their super-powerful beams of light.

Spontaneous emission

   Let's start with the "R" of laser: radiation. The radiation lasers make
   has nothing to do with dangerous radioactivity, the stuff that makes
   Geiger counters click, which atoms spew out when they smash together or
   fall apart. Lasers make electromagnetic radiation, just like ordinary
   light, radio waves, X rays, and infrared. Although it's still produced
   by atoms, they make ("emit") it in a totally different way, when
   electrons jump up and down inside them. We can think of electrons in
   atoms sitting on energy levels, which are a bit like rungs on a ladder.
   Normally, electrons sit at the lowest possible level, which is called
   the atom's ground state. If you fire in just the right amount of
   energy, you can shift an electron up a level, onto the next rung of the
   "ladder." That's called absorption and, in its new state, we say the
   atom's excited—but it's also unstable. It very quickly returns to the
   ground state by giving off the energy it absorbed as a photon (a
   particle of light). We call this process spontaneous emission of
   radiation: the atom is giving off light (emitting radiation) all by
   itself (spontaneously).

   Flame, wick, and melted wax on top of a candle

   Photo: Spontaneous emission—by candlelight.

   From candles to light bulbs and fireflies to flashlights, all
   conventional forms of light work through the process of spontaneous
   emission. In a candle, combustion (the chemical reaction between oxygen
   and fuel, in this case, wax) excites atoms and makes them unstable.
   They give off light when they return to their original (ground) states.
   Every photon produced by spontaneous emission inside this candle flame
   is different from every other photon, which is why there's a mixture of
   different wavelengths (and colors), making "white" light. The photons
   emerge in random directions, with waves that are out of step with one
   another ("out of phase"), which is why candlelight is much weaker than
   laser light.

Stimulated emission

   Normally, a typical bunch of atoms would have more electrons in their
   ground states than their excited states, which is one reason why atoms
   don't spontaneously give off light. But what if we excited those
   atoms—pumped them full of energy—so their electrons were in excited
   states. In that case, the "population" of excited electrons would be
   bigger than the "population" in their ground states, so there would be
   plenty of electrons ready and willing to make photons of light. We call
   this situation a population inversion, because the usual state of
   affairs in the atoms is swapped around (inverted).

   Now suppose also that we could maintain our atoms in this state for a
   little while so they didn't automatically jump back down to their
   ground state (a temporarily excited condition known as a meta-stable
   state). Then we'd find something really interesting. If we fired a
   photon with just the right energy through our bunch of atoms, we'd
   cause one of the excited electrons to jump back down to its ground
   state, giving off both the photon we fired in and the photon produced
   by the electron's change of state. Because we're stimulating atoms to
   get radiation out of them, this process is called stimulated emission.
   We get two photons out after putting one photon in, effectively
   doubling our light and amplifying it (increasing it). These two photons
   can stimulate other atoms to give off more photons, so, pretty soon, we
   get a cascade of photons—a chain reaction—throwing out a brilliant beam
   of pure, coherent laser light. What we've done here is amplify light
   using stimulated emission of radiation—and that's how a laser gets its
   name.

   The theory of lasers: absorption, spontaneous emission, and stimulated
   emission.

   Artwork: How lasers work in theory: Left: Absorption: Fire energy
   (green) into an atom and you can shift an electron (blue) from its
   ground state to an excited state, which usually means pushing it
   further from the nucleus (gray). Middle: Spontaneous emission: An
   excited electron will naturally jump back to its ground state, giving
   out a quantum (packet of energy) as a photon (green wiggle). Right:
   Stimulated emission: Fire a photon near a bunch of excited atoms and
   you can trigger a cascade of identical photons. One photon of light
   triggers many, so what we've got here is light amplification (making
   more light) by stimulated emission of (electromagnetic)
   radiation—LASER!.

What makes laser light so different?

   If that's how lasers make light, why do they make a single color and a
   coherent beam? It boils down to the idea that energy can only exist in
   fixed packets, each of which is called a quantum. It's a bit like
   money. You can only have money in multiples of the most basic unit of
   your currency, which might be a cent, penny, rupee, or whatever. You
   can't have a tenth of a cent or a twentieth of a rupee, but you can
   have 10 cents or 20 rupees. The same is true of energy, and it's
   particularly noticeable inside atoms.

   Like the rungs on a ladder, the energy levels in atoms are in fixed
   places, with gaps in between them. You can't put your foot anywhere on
   a ladder, only on the rungs; and in exactly the same way, you can only
   move electrons in atoms between the fixed energy levels. To make an
   electron jump from a lower to a higher level, you have to feed in a
   precise amount (quantum) of energy, equal to the difference between the
   two energy levels. When electrons flip back down from their excited to
   their ground state, they give out the same, precise amount of energy,
   which takes the form of a photon of light of a particular color.
   Stimulated emission in lasers makes electrons produce a cascade of
   identical photons—identical in energy, frequency, wavelength—and that's
   why laser light is monochromatic. The photons produced are equivalent
   to waves of light whose crests and troughs line up (in other words,
   they are "in phase")—and that's what makes laser light coherent.

   Sponsored links

   Atoms Under the Floorboards banner promotion [INS: :INS]

Types of lasers

   Since we can excite many different kinds of atoms in many different
   ways, we can (theoretically) make many different kinds of lasers. In
   practice, there are only a handful of common kinds, of which the five
   best known are solid-state, gas, liquid dye, semiconductor, and fiber.

   Solids, liquids, and gases are the three main states of matter—and give
   us three different kinds of lasers. Solid-state lasers are like the
   ones I illustrated up above. The medium is something like a ruby rod or
   other solid crystalline material, and a flashtube wrapped around it
   pumps its atoms full of energy. To work effectively, the solid has to
   be doped, a process that replaces some of the solid's atoms with ions
   of impurities, giving it just the right energy levels to produce laser
   light of a certain, precise frequency.

   Ruby red laser and red beam.

   Photo: A classic solid-state ruby laser: Photo courtesy of US
   Department of Energy.

   Solid-state lasers produce high-powered beams, typically in very brief
   pulses. Gas lasers, by contrast, produce continuous bright beams using
   compounds of noble gases (in what are called excimer lasers) or carbon
   dioxide (CO2) as their medium, pumped by electricity. CO2 lasers are
   powerful, efficient, and typically used in industrial cutting and
   welding. Liquid dye lasers use a solution of organic dye molecules as
   the medium, pumped by something like an arc lamp, a flash lamp, or
   another laser. Their big advantage is that they can be used to produce
   a broader band of light frequencies than solid-state and gas lasers,
   and they can even be "tuned" to produce different frequencies. [2]

   Orange dye laser pumped by green solid-state laser.

   Photo: Dye laser: This dye laser (top layer) is used to separate
   different isotopes (atomic forms) of uranium for nuclear power
   production. It absorbs green, copper-vapor laser light from optical
   fibers (bottom layer) and uses it to produce an intense red-orange
   light at a very specific frequency. Photo courtesy of US Department of
   Energy.

   While solid, liquid, and gas lasers tend to be large, powerful, and
   expensive, semiconductor lasers are cheap, tiny, chip-like devices used
   in things like CD players, laser printers, and barcode scanners. They
   work like a cross between a conventional Light-emitting diode (LED) and
   a traditional laser. Like an LED, they make light when electrons and
   "holes" (effectively, "missing electrons") hop about and join together;
   like a laser, they generate coherent, monochromatic light. That's why
   they're sometimes referred to as laser diodes (or diode lasers). You
   can read more about them in our separate article about semiconductor
   laser diodes.

   Close-up of laser diode in CD player.

   Photo: Lasers—as most of us we know them: This is the laser and lens
   that scans discs inside a CD or DVD player. The small circle on the
   bottom right is a semiconductor laser diode, while the larger blue
   circle is the lens that reads the light from the laser after it's
   bounced off the shiny surface of the disc.

   Finally, fiber lasers work their magic inside optical fibers; in
   effect, a doped fiber-optic cable becomes the amplifying medium.
   They're powerful, efficient, reliable, and make it easy to pipe laser
   light to wherever it's needed.

   Green femtosecond laser experiment.

   Photo: Some lasers are designed to produce short, very intense beams.
   Femtolasers (like this one) can make beams lasting only a millionth of
   a billionth of a second (10^−15s)! Photo courtesy of US Department of
   Energy.

What are lasers used for?

     “... none of us who worked on the first lasers imagined how many
     uses there might eventually be... The people involved, motivated
     mainly by curiosity, often have little ideas as to where their
     research will lead.”

     Charles Townes, How the Laser Happened, 1999.

   When Theodore ("Ted") Maiman developed the first practical laser, few
   people realized how important these machines would eventually become.
   Goldfinger, the 1964 James Bond movie, offered a tantalizing glimpse of
   a future where industrial lasers could slice like magic through
   anything in their path—even secret agents!

   Later the same year, reporting on the award of the Nobel Prize in
   Physics to the laser pioneer Charles Townes, The New York Times
   suggested that "a laser beam could, for example, carry all the radio
   and television programs in the world plus several hundred thousand
   telephone calls simultaneously. It is used extensively for
   range-finding and missile-tracking." Over half a century later,
   applications like this—precision tools, digital communication, and
   defense—remain among the most important uses of lasers.

   Hewlett Packard Laser printer

   Photo: Every time it prints a document, the laser printer on your desk
   is busily stimulating zillions of atoms! The laser inside it is used to
   draw a very precise image of the page you want to print onto a large
   drum, which picks up powered ink (toner), and transfers it onto paper.

Tools

   Cutting tools based on CO2 lasers are widely used in industry: they're
   precise, easy-to-automate, and, unlike knives, never need sharpening.
   Where pieces of cloth were once cut by hand to make things like denim
   jeans, now fabrics are chopped by robot-guided lasers. They're faster
   and more accurate than humans and can cut multiple thicknesses of
   fabric at once, which improves efficiency and productivity. The same
   precision is equally important in medicine: doctors routinely use
   lasers on their patients' bodies. for everything from blasting cancer
   tumors and cauterizing blood vessels to correcting problems with
   people's vision (laser-eye surgery, fixing detached retinas, and
   cataract treatments all involve lasers).

   An eye surgeon carries out LASIK laser eye surgery

   Photo: An eye surgeon carries out LASIK surgery. Photo by Larry A.
   Simmons courtesy of US Air Force.

Communications

   Lasers form the bedrock of all kinds of 21st-century digital
   technology. Every time you swipe your shopping through a grocery store
   barcode scanner, you're using a laser to convert a printed barcode into
   a number that the checkout computer can understand. When you watch a
   DVD or listen to a CD, a semiconductor laser beam bounces off the
   spinning disc to convert its printed pattern of data into numbers; a
   computer chip converts these numbers into movies, music, and sound.
   Along with fiber-optic cables, lasers are widely used in a technology
   called photonics—using photons of light to communicate, for example, to
   send vast streams of data back and forth over the Internet. Facebook is
   currently experimenting with using lasers (instead of radio waves) to
   make better connections to space satellites, which could lead to higher
   data rates and much-improved Internet access in developing countries.

   Laser beam sent from the NASA Lunar Ranging Facility to the Lunar
   Reconnaissance Orbiter.

   Photo: Communicating with satellites (in this case, the Lunar
   Reconnaissance Orbiter) using lasers. Photo courtesy of NASA Goddard
   Space Flight Center.

Defense

   The military has long been one of the biggest users of this technology,
   mainly in laser-guided weapons and missiles. Despite its popularization
   in movies and on TV, the sci-fi idea of laser weapons that can cut,
   kill, or blind an enemy remained fanciful until the mid-1980s. In 1981,
   The New York Times went so far as to quote one "military laser expert"
   saying: "It's just silly. It takes more energy to kill a single man
   with a laser than to destroy a missile." Two years later, long-range
   laser weapons officially became the bedrock of US President Ronald
   Reagan's controversial Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), better known
   as the "Star Wars program". The original idea was to use space-based, X
   ray lasers (among other technologies) to destroy incoming enemy
   missiles before they had time to do damage, though the plan gradually
   fizzled out following the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of
   the Cold War.

   Laser Weapon System (LaWS) on board the USS Ponce.

   Photo: Are laser weapons the future? This is the US Navy's Laser Weapon
   System (LaWS), which was tested onboard the USS Ponce in 2014. There
   are no expensive bullets or missiles with a laser gun like this, just
   an endless supply of fiercely directed energy. Photo by John F.
   Williams courtesy of US Navy and Wikimedia Commons.

   Even so, defense scientists have continued to transform laser-based
   missiles from science fiction into reality. The US Navy first began
   testing LaWS (Laser Weapon System) onboard the USS Ponce ship in the
   Persian Gulf in 2014. Using solid-state lasers pumped by LEDs, it was
   designed to damage or destroy enemy equipment more cheaply and
   precisely than conventional missiles. The tests proved successful, and
   the Navy announced contracts to build more LaWS systems in 2018.
   Meanwhile, the development of space lasers continues, though none have
   so far been deployed.

   An overhead view of one of the laser bays at the National Ignition
   Facility

   Photo: Scientists at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in
   California developed the world's most powerful laser, National Ignition
   Facility (NIF), for nuclear research. Housed in a 10-story building
   occupying an area as big as three football fields, it uses 192 separate
   laser beams to deliver up to 500 trillion watts of power (100 times
   more energy than any other laser), generating temperatures of up to 100
   million degrees. NIF cost a total of $3.5 billion and is expected to
   power cutting-edge nuclear research for the next 30 years. Above: One
   of the twin laser bays at the National Ignition Facility. Below: How it
   works: Beams from the laser are concentrated on a small pellet of fuel
   in a chamber to produce intense temperatures (like those deep inside
   stars). The idea is to produce nuclear fusion (make atoms join
   together) and release a massive amount of energy. Photo credit:
   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.

   An artist's impression of how laser beams from the NIF are concentrated
   on a fuel pellet to produce nuclear fusion

Who invented lasers?

   We can trace the birth of lasers right back to the first two decades of
   the 20th century. That's when Albert Einstein figured out the quantum
   theory of light and photons (in 1905) and the mechanism of stimulated
   emission (in 1917)—the two key components of laser science. But it was
   another four decades before the first practical laser actually
   appeared.

   Lasers evolved from masers, which are similar but produce microwaves
   and radio waves instead of visible light. Masers were invented in the
   1950s by Charles Townes and Arthur Schawlow, both of whom went on to
   win the Nobel Prize in Physics for their work (Townes in 1964 and
   Schawlow in 1981). They applied to protect their invention on July 30,
   1958 and were granted US Patent #2,929,922 (Masers and maser
   communication system) on March 22, 1960 (you can see one of the
   drawings from it here).

   Maser patent drawing by Arthur Schawlow and Charles Townes from US
   patent 2,929,922 granted March 22, 1960.

   Artwork: The original maser designed in the late 1950s by Arthur
   Schawlow and Charles Townes, taken from their US Patent 2,929,922,
   which I've colored to highlight the main components. You can see how
   closely it resembles the laser in my artwork in the box up above.
   Artwork courtesy of US Patent and Trademark Office.

   But did they invent the laser? In 1957, one of Townes' graduate
   students, Gordon Gould, sketched in his lab notebook an idea for how a
   visible light version of the maser could work, coining the word "laser"
   that we've used ever since. Unfortunately, he didn't patent his idea at
   the time and had to devote the next 20 years of his life to legal
   battles, eventually gaining a patent for part of the laser invention
   (Method of energizing a material) and substantial back royalties in
   1977. [3]

   Laser patent drawing by Gordon Gould from US patent 4,161,436 granted
   July 17, 1979.

   Artwork: Gordon Gould's alternative laser is a very different design,
   but does essentially the same job: amplifying light. Artwork courtesy
   of US Patent and Trademark Office.

   Although Townes and Schawlow are often credited with inventing lasers,
   the first person to build a working, visible light laser was actually
   Theodore Maiman, who has never really gained the recognition he
   deserved: his original writeup of his work was rejected by the journal
   Physical Review Letters and, despite twice being nominated for the
   Nobel Physics Prize, he never won the ultimate accolade. He was,
   however, inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 1984 and
   won many other worldwide honors for his groundbreaking work. [4]

     *
     *
     *
     *

       IFRAME:
       https://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.ex
       plainthatstuff.com%2Flasers.html&width=90&layout=button_count&actio
       n=like&size=small&share=false&height=21&appId=1678539732394615

About the author

   Chris Woodford is the author and editor of dozens of science and
   technology books for adults and children, including DK's worldwide
   bestselling Cool Stuff series and Atoms Under the Floorboards, which
   won the American Institute of Physics Science Writing award in 2016.
   You can hire him to write books, articles, scripts, corporate copy, and
   more via his website chriswoodford.com.

   Sponsored links

   Atoms under the floorboards banner ad. [INS: :INS]

Find out more

On this website

     * Energy
     * Fiber optics
     * History of communication
     * Holograms
     * Laser printers
     * Light
     * Light-emitting diodes (LEDs)
     * Semiconductor lasers

On other websites

     * Laserfest: A superb website set up to mark the 50th anniversary of
       the laser's invention. Includes excellent videos by laser pioneers,
       including Charles Townes and Theodore Maiman, and many other useful
       articles and resources. [Archived via the Wayback Machine.]

Articles

     * NASA Approves Mission to Launch "Artificial Star" by Charles Q.
       Choi. IEEE Spectrum, June 27, 2024. A new laser-linked, satellite
       "pseudostar" will help to make space telescopes more accurate.
     * Researchers Use Lasers to Bring the Internet Under the Sea by
       Michael Koziol. IEEE Spectrum, June 22, 2020. Could lasers carry
       the Internet to places where conventional radio can't reach?
     * Laser Destroys Cancer Cells Circulating in the Blood by Emily
       Waltz. IEEE Spectrum, June 12, 2019. Lasers promise greatly
       improved treatment for skin cancer.
     * Facebook's Plans for Space Lasers Revealed by Mark Harris. IEEE
       Spectrum, January 21, 2019. How Facebook is helping to pioneer
       laser connections to communications satellites to provide improved
       Internet access in developing countries.
     * Creating Lasers in the Sky by Alexander Hellemans. IEEE Spectrum,
       March 10, 2015. How can we create focused atmospheric laser beams?
     * Giant Laser Complex Makes Fusion Advance, Finally by Kenneth Chang
       and William J. Broad. The New York Times. February 12, 2014.
       Exploring laser-powered progress at the National Ignition Facility.
     * Lasers scan future possibilities by Jonathan Amos, BBC News, 12 May
       2010. Explains how lasers became an indispensable part of everyday
       life—and where the technology is heading next.
     * Lasers lift dirt of ages from artworks by Doreen Walton, BBC News,
       26 February 2010. Lasers can be used to blast away dirt, restoring
       paintings to their former glory.
     * Wired: This Day in Tech: May 16, 1960: Researcher Shines a Laser
       Light by Randy Alfred, Wired, May 16, 2011. Explains how laser
       pioneer Theodore Maiman created the first ruby crystal laser.
     * The Race to Make the First Laser by Jeff Hecht. A short account of
       laser history from Hecht's book Laser Pioneers (see below).
     * Maser and Laser Similar Devices: Both Amplify Signals by the
       Stimulation of Radiation: The New York Times, October 1964. An
       early report signalling the likely future promise of lasers.

Books

For younger readers

     * Lasers by James Bow. Gareth Stevens, 2016. A 48-page introduction
       for ages 9–12.
     * Lasers: The Technology and Uses of Crafted Light by Charlene
       Billings and John Tabak. Facts on File, 2006. A deeper, 208-page
       overview for ages 10+ (also a good as a non-mathematical
       backgrounder for adult readers).
     * Science Pathways: Light by Chris Woodford. Rosen, 2012. One of my
       own books, this is the broader story of how scientists unraveled
       the mysteries of light. Ages 9–12. (Previously published by
       Blackbirch, 2004.)

For older readers

   Check out anything and everything by Jeff Hecht—for my money, the best
   science writer by far covering laser-related topics. Jeff's own website
   contains lots of laser- and optics-related resources.
     * Beam: The Race to Make the Laser by Jeff Hecht. Oxford University
       Press, 2005. The early years of the laser, focusing on the work of
       Townes, Schawlow, and Maiman.
     * Lasers by Anthony E. Siegman. University Science Books, 1990. One
       of the best introductory books on lasers for college-level
       students, written by a Stanford Professor.
     * Principles of Lasers by Orazio Svelto. Springer, 1998. Another
       detailed student text for undergraduates.
     * Laser Pioneers by Jeff Hecht. Academic Press, 1992. The story of
       the laser, including interviews with 15 of the key pioneers.
     * How the Laser Happened: Adventures of a Scientist by Charles
       Townes. Oxford University Press, 1999.

Videos

     * Inventing the laser at Bell Labs: Charles Townes and Arthur
       Schawlow are interviewed in this great AT&T archive video from
       1988, which explains why lasers were developed, how they work, and
       what they've done for us.
     * Theodore Maiman Explains the First Ruby Laser: The developer of the
       first working laser explains his invention in this short archive
       video from The Optical Society.

Notes and references

    1. ↑   "Solution looking for a problem" is a quote from Irnee
       D'Haenens, one of Ted Maiman's assistants, speaking to Maiman.
       Quoted in Beam: The Race to Make the Laser by Jeff Hecht. Oxford
       University Press, 2005, p.9.
    2. ↑    Laser Fabrication and Machining of Materials by Narendra B.
       Dahotre, Sandip Harimkar. Springer, 2008, p.31.
    3. ↑   Inventor Beams Over Laser Patents : After 30 Years, Gordon
       Gould Gets Credit He Deserves by Carla Hall, LA Times, December 17,
       1987.
    4. ↑   Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser, The New
       York Times, May 11, 2007.

   Please do NOT copy our articles onto blogs and other websites

   Articles from this website are registered at the US Copyright Office.
   Copying or otherwise using registered works without permission,
   removing this or other copyright notices, and/or infringing related
   rights could make you liable to severe civil or criminal penalties.

   Text copyright © Chris Woodford 2006, 2024. All rights reserved. Full
   copyright notice and terms of use.

Follow us

     * Follow us on → Facebook
     * and find our photos on → Flickr

Rate this page

   Please rate or give feedback on this page and I will make a donation to
   WaterAid.

Tell your friends

   If you've enjoyed this website, please kindly tell your friends about
   us on your favorite social sites.

   Press CTRL + D to bookmark this page for later, or email the link to a
   friend.

Cite this page

   Woodford, Chris. (2006/2024) Lasers. Retrieved from
   https://www.explainthatstuff.com/lasers.html. [Accessed (Insert date
   here)]

Bibtex

   @misc{woodford_2FA, author = "Woodford, Chris", title = "Lasers",
   publisher = "Explain that Stuff", year = "2006", url =
   "https://www.explainthatstuff.com/lasers.html", urldate = "2024-11-28"
   }

Can't find what you want? Search our site below↓

   Explain that Stuff

More to explore on our website...

     * Communications
     * Computers
     * Electricity & electronics
     * Energy
     * Engineering
     * Environment
     * Gadgets
     * Home life
     * Materials
     * Science
     * Tools & instruments
     * Transportation

     * Home
     * A-Z index
     * Send feedback
     * Random article
     * Timeline
     * Teaching guide
     * About us
     * Privacy & cookies

   ↑ Back to top
