   #alternate alternate alternate

   [?c1=2&amp;c2=10055482&amp;cv=4.4.0&amp;cj=1]

   Skip to main content

   (*) ( )

   (BUTTON) Open menu
   Space Space
   Sign up to our newsletter Newsletter
   RSS
   Sign in
     *
     * View Profile
     * Sign out

   [ ] Search Search Space ____________________ (BUTTON)

     *
     * Space Exploration
          + Launches & Spacecraft
               o Private spaceflight
               o Human spaceflight
               o SpaceX
               o Blue Origin
               o Virgin Galactic
               o United Launch Alliance
          + Search for Life
               o Exoplanets
               o SETI
               o Aliens
          + Missions
               o International Space Station
               o Space Shuttle
               o Apollo
               o Artemis
               o Voyager
               o Asteroid & Comet Missions
               o Mars rovers
               o New Horizons
               o Parker Solar Probe
          + Satellites
     * Astronomy
          + Solar System
               o The Sun
               o Asteroids
               o Mars
               o Comets
               o Mercury
               o Jupiter
               o Saturn
               o Pluto
               o Venus
               o Dwarf Planets
               o Neptune
               o Uranus
          + The Moon
               o Moon Phases
          + The Earth
               o Live 4K video from space
               o Climate Change
               o Weather
          + The Universe
               o Stars
               o Black Holes
               o Dark Universe
               o Galaxies
          + Deep Space
               o James Webb Space Telescope
               o Hubble Space Telescope
     * Stargazing
          + Skywatching Kit
               o Telescopes
               o Cameras
          + Astrophotography
          + Eclipses
               o Lunar Eclipses
               o Solar Eclipses
     * Entertainment
          + Space Movies & Shows
               o Star Trek
               o Star Wars
          + Space Games
          + Space Toys & Lego
          + Space Books
     * (BUTTON) Tech & Science
          + Technology
               o Drones
               o Aerospace
          + Science
               o Particle Physics
               o Astrophysics
     * Videos
     * (BUTTON) More
          +
          + Subscribe to our Newsletters
          + About Us
          + Web Notifications

     * home
     * Space Exploration
          + View Space Exploration
          + Launches & Spacecraft
               o View Launches & Spacecraft
               o Private spaceflight
               o Human spaceflight
               o SpaceX
               o Blue Origin
               o Virgin Galactic
               o United Launch Alliance
          + Search for Life
               o View Search for Life
               o Exoplanets
               o SETI
               o Aliens
          + Missions
               o View Missions
               o International Space Station
               o Space Shuttle
               o Apollo
               o Artemis
               o Voyager
               o Asteroid & Comet Missions
               o Mars rovers
               o New Horizons
               o Parker Solar Probe
          + Satellites
     * Astronomy
          + View Astronomy
          + Solar System
               o View Solar System
               o The Sun
               o Asteroids
               o Mars
               o Comets
               o Mercury
               o Jupiter
               o Saturn
               o Pluto
               o Venus
               o Dwarf Planets
               o Neptune
               o Uranus
          + The Moon
               o View The Moon
               o Moon Phases
          + The Earth
               o View The Earth
               o Live 4K video from space
               o Climate Change
               o Weather
          + The Universe
               o View The Universe
               o Stars
               o Black Holes
               o Dark Universe
               o Galaxies
          + Deep Space
               o View Deep Space
               o James Webb Space Telescope
               o Hubble Space Telescope
     * Stargazing
          + View Stargazing
          + Skywatching Kit
               o View Skywatching Kit
               o Telescopes
               o Cameras
          + Astrophotography
          + Eclipses
               o View Eclipses
               o Lunar Eclipses
               o Solar Eclipses
     * Entertainment
          + View Entertainment
          + Space Movies & Shows
               o View Space Movies & Shows
               o Star Trek
               o Star Wars
          + Space Games
          + Space Toys & Lego
          + Space Books
     * (BUTTON) Tech & Science
          + Technology
               o View Technology
               o Drones
               o Aerospace
          + Science
               o View Science
               o Particle Physics
               o Astrophysics
     * Videos
     * (BUTTON) More
          + Subscribe to our Newsletters
          + About Us
          + Web Notifications

   Jump to:
     * What is a light-year?
     * Speed of light FAQs
     * History
     * Special relativity
     * Faster than light
     * Slowing down light
     * Faster-than-light travel
     * Bibliography

   Don't miss these
   (BUTTON)

   A white light of the comet 3I/ATLAS is surrounded by a blue glow
   against a black background
   Comets Latest Comet 3I/ATLAS news: Comet close approach today
   two orbs of yellow light on a blue spiral of wave-like lines
   Particle Physics How the 'delayed choice quantum eraser' experiment got
   us to rethink reality
   Runaway supermassive black hole flees the Cosmic Owl galaxies leaving a
   trail of stars
   Black Holes James Webb Space Telescope confirms 1st 'runaway'
   supermassive black hole rocketing through home galaxy at 2.2 million
   mph: 'It boggles the mind!'
   A bright green comet is pictured to the bottom left of a starfield
   against a black sky, with a long tail extending to the upper right of
   the screen.
   Comets How 2025 became the year of comet: The rise of interstellar
   3I/ATLAS, an icy Lemmon and a cosmic SWAN
   An illustration of concentrated dark matter at the heart of a spiral
   galaxy
   Astronomy Most normal matter in the universe isn't found in planets,
   stars or galaxies – an astronomer explains where it's distributed
   Illustration of the collision of two planetesimals in the circumstellar
   disc of the star Fomalhaut.
   Stars Astronomers capture 1st direct images of collisions in a nearby
   star system: 'It's like looking back in time'
   gif animation of a starlink satellite train traveling through the night
   sky as distinct bright white lights against a backdrop of stars.
   Satellites Starlink satellite train: how to see and track it in the
   night sky
   2025 was a big year for black holes
   Black Holes The biggest black hole breakthroughs of 2025
   (Main) This composite image features X-ray, ultraviolet, optical, and
   near-infrared data of the luminous fast blue optical transient (LFBOT)
   named AT 2024wpp. The transient is the bright spot at the upper right
   edge of its host galaxy, which is 1.1 billion light-years from Earth.
   (Inset) An illustration of a Tidal Disruption Event
   Black Holes Mysterious bright blue cosmic blasts triggered by black
   holes shredding stars, scientists say. 'It's definitely not just an
   exploding star.'
   Man uses one of the best telescopes and binoculars to look at the night
   sky as the sun sets and telescopes are on tripods around him
   Skywatching Kit Best telescopes this holiday season: Observe stars,
   galaxies and nebulas
   rows of starlink satellites in the lower left portion of the image with
   Earth in the background and a slither of black space in the lower right
   side of the image.
   Satellites Starlink satellites: Facts, tracking and impact on astronomy
   An illustration showing the accretion disc surrounding a black hole, in
   which the inner region of the disc wobbles.
   Black Holes Einstein's right again! Scientists catch a feasting black
   hole dragging the very fabric of spacetime
   A glowing ball of blue light stands out against a black background
   Stars What old, dying stars teach us about axions as a candidate for
   dark matter
   NASA astronaut captured this view of a SpaceX Starlink satellite train
   from the International Space Station. This image is a still from a
   video posted on X on Oct. 7, 2025.
   International Space Station ISS astronaut captures amazing video of
   SpaceX Starlink satellite train cruising above auroras
   A series of four photos, one large one on the right and three stacked
   on the left showing various dots of comet 3I/ATLAS
   Comets How did interstellar comet 3I/ATLAS capture our imagination in
   2025?

   Trending
     * Night sky tonight!
     * Best Telescopes
     * Aurora Forecast
     * Space Calendar
     * Live 4K Sen video from space!
     * Next Full Moon
     * Best Drones
     * Solar System Planets
     * Best Binoculars
     * Lego Star Wars deals
     * Best Star Projectors

    1. Astronomy

What is the speed of light?

   References
   By Vicky Stein last updated 29 October 2024

   Beyond the limits of light: exploring the speed of light and the
   boundaries of faster-than-light travel

   When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate
   commission. Here’s how it works.

   Abstract, futuristic image of blue light streaks radiating outward,
   giving the impression of rapid movement or traveling at high speed,
   inspired by the concept of faster-than-light travel
   The speed of light puts a speed limit on matter, lets us peer back into
   the history of our universe, and has deep implications for physics and
   space travel. (Image credit: Josh Hawley via Getty Images)
   (BUTTON)
   Jump to:
     * What is a light-year?
     * Speed of light FAQs
     * History
     * Special relativity
     * Faster than light
     * Slowing down light
     * Faster-than-light travel
     * Bibliography

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Share
   Share by:
     * (BUTTON) Copy link
     * Facebook
     * X
     * Whatsapp
     * Reddit
     * Pinterest
     * Flipboard

   Share this article
   Join the conversation
   Follow us
   Add us as a preferred source on Google
   Newsletter
   Subscribe to our newsletter

   The speed of light traveling through a vacuum is exactly 299,792,458
   meters (983,571,056 feet) per second. That's about 186,282 miles per
   second — a universal constant known in equations as "c," or light
   speed.

   According to physicist Albert Einstein's theory of special relativity,
   on which much of modern physics is based, nothing in the universe can
   travel faster than light. The theory states that as matter approaches
   the speed of light, the matter's mass becomes infinite. That means the
   speed of light functions as a speed limit for the whole universe.

   The speed of light is so immutable that, according to the U.S. National
   Institute of Standards and Technology, it is used to define
   international standard measurements like the meter (and by extension,
   the mile, the foot and the inch). Through some crafty equations, it
   also helps define the kilogram and the temperature unit Kelvin.

   You may like
     * rows of starlink satellites in the lower left portion of the image
       with Earth in the background and a slither of black space in the
       lower right side of the image. Starlink satellites: Facts, tracking
       and impact on astronomy
     * Graphic illustrating quantum entanglement when two particles are
       linking together. What is quantum entanglement? The physics of
       'spooky action at a distance' explained
     * A series of lights in concentric circles show the rotation of the
       night sky as Earth spins on its axis Why can't we feel the Earth
       moving?

   But despite the speed of light's reputation as a universal constant,
   scientists and science fiction writers alike spend time contemplating
   faster-than-light travel. So far no one's been able to demonstrate a
   real warp drive, but that hasn't slowed our collective hurtle toward
   new stories, new inventions and new realms of physics.

What is a light-year?

   A light-year is the distance that light can travel in one year — about
   6 trillion miles (10 trillion kilometers). It's one way that
   astronomers and physicists measure immense distances across our
   universe.

   Light travels from the moon to our eyes in about 1 second, which means
   the moon is about 1 light-second away. Sunlight takes about 8 minutes
   to reach our eyes, so the sun is about 8 light minutes away. Light from
   Alpha Centauri, which is the nearest star system to our own, requires
   roughly 4.3 years to get here, so Alpha Centauri is 4.3 light-years
   away.

   "To obtain an idea of the size of a light-year, take the circumference
   of the Earth (24,900 miles), lay it out in a straight line, multiply
   the length of the line by 7.5 (the corresponding distance is one
   light-second), then place 31.6 million similar lines end to end,"
   NASA's Glenn Research Center says on its website. "The resulting
   distance is almost 6 trillion (6,000,000,000,000) miles!"

   Get the Space.com Newsletter

   Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching
   events and more!
   ____________________ [ ] Contact me with news and offers from other
   Future brands [ ] Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted
   partners or sponsors Sign me up

   By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and
   Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

How long would it take humans to travel one light year?

   An airplane traveling 600 mph (965 km/h) would take 1 million years to
   travel a single light-year! If we could travel one light-year using a
   crewed spacecraft like the Apollo lunar module, the journey would take
   approximately 27,000 years, according to the BBC Sky at Night Magazine.

   Stars and other objects beyond our solar system lie anywhere from a few
   light-years to a few billion light-years away. And everything
   astronomers "see" in the distant universe is literally history. When
   astronomers study objects that are far away, they are seeing light that
   shows the objects as they existed at the time that light left them.

   This principle allows astronomers to see the universe as it looked
   after the Big Bang, which took place about 13.8 billion years ago.
   Objects that are 10 billion light-years away from us appear to
   astronomers as they looked 10 billion years ago — relatively soon after
   the beginning of the universe — rather than how they appear today.

   Related: Why the universe is all history

   You may like
     * rows of starlink satellites in the lower left portion of the image
       with Earth in the background and a slither of black space in the
       lower right side of the image. Starlink satellites: Facts, tracking
       and impact on astronomy
     * Graphic illustrating quantum entanglement when two particles are
       linking together. What is quantum entanglement? The physics of
       'spooky action at a distance' explained
     * A series of lights in concentric circles show the rotation of the
       night sky as Earth spins on its axis Why can't we feel the Earth
       moving?

Speed of light FAQs answered by an expert

   We asked Rob Zellem, exoplanet-hunter and staff scientist at NASA's Jet
   Propulsion Lab, a few frequently asked questions about the speed of
   light.
   Rob Zellem
   Rob Zellem

   Social Links Navigation

   Exoplanet astronomer

   Dr. Rob Zellem is a staff scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion
   Laboratory, a federally funded research and development center operated
   by the California Institute of Technology. Rob is the project lead for
   Exoplanet Watch, a citizen science project to observe exoplanets,
   planets outside of our own solar system, with small telescopes. He is
   also the Science Calibration lead for the Nancy Grace Roman Space
   Telescope's Coronagraph Instrument, which will directly image
   exoplanets.

What is faster than the speed of light?

   Nothing! Light is a "universal speed limit" and, according to
   Einstein's theory of relativity, is the fastest speed in the universe:
   300,000 kilometers per second (186,000 miles per second).

Is the speed of light constant?

   The speed of light is a universal constant in a vacuum, like the vacuum
   of space. However, light *can* slow down slightly when it passes
   through an absorbing medium, like water (225,000 kilometers per second
   = 140,000 miles per second) or glass (200,000 kilometers per second =
   124,000 miles per second).

Who discovered the speed of light?

   One of the first measurements of the speed of light was by Ole Rømer in
   1676 by observing the moons of Jupiter. The speed of light was first
   measured to high precision in 1879 by the Michelson-Morley Experiment.

How do we know the speed of light?

   Ole Rømer was able to measure the speed of light by observing eclipses
   of Jupiter's moon Io. When Jupiter was closer to Earth, Rømer noted
   that eclipses of Io occurred slightly earlier than when Jupiter was
   farther away. Rømer attributed this effect to the time it takes for
   light to travel over the longer distance when Jupiter was farther from
   the Earth.

How did we learn the speed of light?

   Galileo Galilei is credited with discovering the first four moons of
   Jupiter.
   Aristotle, Empedocles, Galileo (illustrated here), Ole Rømer and
   countless other philosophers and physicists in history have
   contemplated the speed of light. (Image credit: NASA)

   As early as the 5th century BC, Greek philosophers like Empedocles and
   Aristotle disagreed on the nature of light speed. Empedocles proposed
   that light, whatever it was made of, must travel and therefore, must
   have a rate of travel. Aristotle wrote a rebuttal of Empedocles' view
   in his own treatise, On Sense and the Sensible, arguing that light,
   unlike sound and smell, must be instantaneous. Aristotle was wrong, of
   course, but it would take hundreds of years for anyone to prove it.

   In the mid 1600s, the Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei stood two
   people on hills less than a mile apart. Each person held a shielded
   lantern. One uncovered his lantern; when the other person saw the
   flash, he uncovered his too. But Galileo's experimental distance wasn't
   far enough for his participants to record the speed of light. He could
   only conclude that light traveled at least 10 times faster than sound.

   In the 1670s, Danish astronomer Ole Rømer tried to create a reliable
   timetable for sailors at sea, and according to NASA, accidentally came
   up with a new best estimate for the speed of light. To create an
   astronomical clock, he recorded the precise timing of the eclipses of
   Jupiter's moon, Io, from Earth. Over time, Rømer observed that Io's
   eclipses often differed from his calculations. He noticed that the
   eclipses appeared to lag the most when Jupiter and Earth were moving
   away from one another, showed up ahead of time when the planets were
   approaching and occurred on schedule when the planets were at their
   closest or farthest points. This observation demonstrated what we today
   know as the Doppler effect, the change in frequency of light or sound
   emitted by a moving object that in the astronomical world manifests as
   the so-called redshift, the shift towards "redder", longer wavelengths
   in objects speeding away from us. In a leap of intuition, Rømer
   determined that light was taking measurable time to travel from Io to
   Earth.

   Rømer used his observations to estimate the speed of light. Since the
   size of the solar system and Earth's orbit wasn't yet accurately known,
   argued a 1998 paper in the American Journal of Physics, he was a bit
   off. But at last, scientists had a number to work with. Rømer's
   calculation put the speed of light at about 124,000 miles per second
   (200,000 km/s).

   In 1728, English physicist James Bradley based a new set of
   calculations on the change in the apparent position of stars caused by
   Earth's travels around the sun. He estimated the speed of light at
   185,000 miles per second (301,000 km/s) — accurate to within about 1%
   of the real value, according to the American Physical Society.

   Two new attempts in the mid-1800s brought the problem back to Earth.
   French physicist Hippolyte Fizeau set a beam of light on a rapidly
   rotating toothed wheel, with a mirror set up 5 miles (8 km) away to
   reflect it back to its source. Varying the speed of the wheel allowed
   Fizeau to calculate how long it took for the light to travel out of the
   hole, to the adjacent mirror, and back through the gap. Another French
   physicist, Leon Foucault, used a rotating mirror rather than a wheel to
   perform essentially the same experiment. The two independent methods
   each came within about 1,000 miles per second (1,609 km/s) of the speed
   of light.

   Dr. Albert A. Michelson stands next to a large tube supported by wooden
   beams.
   On Aug. 15, 1930 in Santa Ana, CA, Dr. Albert A. Michelson stood
   alongside the mile-long vacuum tube which would be used in his last and
   most accurate measurement of the speed of light. (Image credit:
   Getty/Bettman)

   Another scientist who tackled the speed of light mystery was
   Poland-born Albert A. Michelson, who grew up in California during the
   state's gold rush period, and honed his interest in physics while
   attending the U.S. Naval Academy, according to the University of
   Virginia. In 1879, he attempted to replicate Foucault's method of
   determining the speed of light, but Michelson increased the distance
   between mirrors and used extremely high-quality mirrors and lenses.
   Michelson's result of 186,355 miles per second (299,910 km/s) was
   accepted as the most accurate measurement of the speed of light for 40
   years, until Michelson re-measured it himself. In his second round of
   experiments, Michelson flashed lights between two mountain tops with
   carefully measured distances to get a more precise estimate. And in his
   third attempt just before his death in 1931, according to the
   Smithsonian's Air and Space magazine, he built a mile-long
   depressurized tube of corrugated steel pipe. The pipe simulated a
   near-vacuum that would remove any effect of air on light speed for an
   even finer measurement, which in the end was just slightly lower than
   the accepted value of the speed of light today.

   Michelson also studied the nature of light itself, wrote astrophysicist
   Ethan Siegal in the Forbes science blog, Starts With a Bang. The best
   minds in physics at the time of Michelson's experiments were divided:
   Was light a wave or a particle?

   Michelson, along with his colleague Edward Morley, worked under the
   assumption that light moved as a wave, just like sound. And just as
   sound needs particles to move, Michelson and Morley and other
   physicists of the time reasoned, light must have some kind of medium to
   move through. This invisible, undetectable stuff was called the
   "luminiferous aether" (also known as "ether").

   Though Michelson and Morley built a sophisticated interferometer (a
   very basic version of the instrument used today in LIGO facilities),
   Michelson could not find evidence of any kind of luminiferous aether
   whatsoever. Light, he determined, can and does travel through a vacuum.

   "The experiment — and Michelson's body of work — was so revolutionary
   that he became the only person in history to have won a Nobel Prize for
   a very precise non-discovery of anything," Siegal wrote. "The
   experiment itself may have been a complete failure, but what we learned
   from it was a greater boon to humanity and our understanding of the
   universe than any success would have been!"

Special relativity and the speed of light

   Albert Einstein writing on a blackboard.
   Einstein's theory of special relativity unified energy, matter and the
   speed of light in a famous equation: E = mc^2. (Image credit: NASA)

   Einstein's theory of special relativity unified energy, matter and the
   speed of light in a famous equation: E = mc^2. The equation describes
   the relationship between mass and energy — small amounts of mass (m)
   contain, or are made up of, an inherently enormous amount of energy
   (E). (That's what makes nuclear bombs so powerful: They're converting
   mass into blasts of energy.) Because energy is equal to mass times the
   speed of light squared, the speed of light serves as a conversion
   factor, explaining exactly how much energy must be within matter. And
   because the speed of light is such a huge number, even small amounts of
   mass must equate to vast quantities of energy.

   To accurately describe the universe, Einstein's elegant equation
   requires the speed of light to be an immutable constant. Einstein
   asserted that light moved through a vacuum, not any kind of
   luminiferous aether, and in such a way that it moved at the same speed
   no matter the speed of the observer.

   Think of it like this: Observers sitting on a train could look at a
   train moving along a parallel track and think of its relative movement
   to themselves as zero. But observers moving nearly the speed of light
   would still perceive light as moving away from them at more than 670
   million mph. (That's because moving really, really fast is one of the
   only confirmed methods of time travel — time actually slows down for
   those observers, who will age slower and perceive fewer moments than an
   observer moving slowly.)

   In other words, Einstein proposed that the speed of light doesn't vary
   with the time or place that you measure it, or how fast you yourself
   are moving.

   Therefore, objects with mass cannot ever reach the speed of light. If
   an object ever did reach the speed of light, its mass would become
   infinite. And as a result, the energy required to move the object would
   also become infinite: an impossibility.

   That means if we base our understanding of physics on special
   relativity (which most modern physicists do), the speed of light is the
   immutable speed limit of our universe — the fastest that anything can
   travel.

What goes faster than the speed of light?

   Although the speed of light is often referred to as the universe's
   speed limit, the universe actually expands even faster. The universe
   expands at a little more than 42 miles (68 kilometers) per second for
   each megaparsec of distance from the observer, wrote astrophysicist
   Paul Sutter in a previous article for Space.com. (A megaparsec is 3.26
   million light-years — a really long way.)

   In other words, a galaxy 1 megaparsec away appears to be traveling away
   from the Milky Way at a speed of 42 miles per second (68 km/s), while a
   galaxy two megaparsecs away recedes at nearly 86 miles per second (136
   km/s), and so on.

   "At some point, at some obscene distance, the speed tips over the
   scales and exceeds the speed of light, all from the natural, regular
   expansion of space," Sutter explained. "It seems like it should be
   illegal, doesn't it?"

   Special relativity provides an absolute speed limit within the
   universe, according to Sutter, but Einstein's 1915 theory regarding
   general relativity allows different behavior when the physics you're
   examining are no longer "local."

   "A galaxy on the far side of the universe? That's the domain of general
   relativity, and general relativity says: Who cares! That galaxy can
   have any speed it wants, as long as it stays way far away, and not up
   next to your face," Sutter wrote. "Special relativity doesn't care
   about the speed — superluminal or otherwise — of a distant galaxy. And
   neither should you."

Does light ever slow down?

   A sparkling diamond amongst dark coal-like rock.
   Light moves more slowly when traveling through diamond than when moving
   through air, and it moves through air slightly slower than it can
   travel in a vacuum. (Image credit: Shutterstock)

   Light in a vacuum is generally held to travel at an absolute speed, but
   light traveling through any material can be slowed down. The amount
   that a material slows down light is called its refractive index. Light
   bends when coming into contact with particles, which results in a
   decrease in speed.

   For example, light traveling through Earth's atmosphere moves almost as
   fast as light in a vacuum, slowing down by just three ten-thousandths
   of the speed of light. But light passing through a diamond slows to
   less than half its typical speed, PBS NOVA reported. Even so, it
   travels through the gem at over 277 million mph (almost 124,000 km/s) —
   enough to make a difference, but still incredibly fast.

   Light can be trapped — and even stopped — inside ultra-cold clouds of
   atoms, according to a 2001 study published in the journal Nature. More
   recently, a 2018 study published in the journal Physical Review Letters
   proposed a new way to stop light in its tracks at "exceptional points,"
   or places where two separate light emissions intersect and merge into
   one.

   Researchers have also tried to slow down light even when it's traveling
   through a vacuum. A team of Scottish scientists successfully slowed
   down a single photon, or particle of light, even as it moved through a
   vacuum, as described in their 2015 study published in the journal
   Science. In their measurements, the difference between a slowed photon
   and a "regular" photon was just a few millionths of a meter, but it
   demonstrated that light in a vacuum can be slower than the official
   speed of light.

Can we travel faster than light?

   Related stories:

   — Spaceship could fly faster than light

   — Here's what the speed of light looks like in slow motion

   — Why is the speed of light the way it is?

   Science fiction loves the idea of "warp speed." Faster-than-light
   travel makes countless sci-fi franchises possible, condensing the vast
   expanses of space and letting characters pop back and forth between
   star systems with ease.

   But while faster-than-light travel isn't guaranteed impossible, we'd
   need to harness some pretty exotic physics to make it work. Luckily for
   sci-fi enthusiasts and theoretical physicists alike, there are lots of
   avenues to explore.

   All we have to do is figure out how to not move ourselves — since
   special relativity would ensure we'd be long destroyed before we
   reached high enough speed — but instead, move the space around us.
   Easy, right?

   One proposed idea involves a spaceship that could fold a space-time
   bubble around itself. Sounds great, both in theory and in fiction.

   "If Captain Kirk were constrained to move at the speed of our fastest
   rockets, it would take him a hundred thousand years just to get to the
   next star system," said Seth Shostak, an astronomer at the Search for
   Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) Institute in Mountain View,
   California, in a 2010 interview with Space.com's sister site
   LiveScience. "So science fiction has long postulated a way to beat the
   speed of light barrier so the story can move a little more quickly."

   Without faster-than-light travel, any "Star Trek" (or "Star War," for
   that matter) would be impossible. If humanity is ever to reach the
   farthest — and constantly expanding — corners of our universe, it will
   be up to future physicists to boldly go where no one has gone before.

Additional resources

   For more on the speed of light, check out this fun tool from Academo
   that lets you visualize how fast light can travel from any place on
   Earth to any other. If you’re more interested in other important
   numbers, get familiar with the universal constants that define standard
   systems of measurement around the world with the National Institute of
   Standards and Technology. And if you’d like more on the history of the
   speed of light, check out the book "Lightspeed: The Ghostly Aether and
   the Race to Measure the Speed of Light" (Oxford, 2019) by John C. H.
   Spence.

Bibliography

   Aristotle. “On Sense and the Sensible.” The Internet Classics Archive,
   350AD. http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/sense.2.2.html.

   D’Alto, Nick. “The Pipeline That Measured the Speed of Light.”
   Smithsonian Magazine, January 2017.
   https://www.smithsonianmag.com/air-space-magazine/18_fm2017-oo-18096166
   9/.

   Fowler, Michael. “Speed of Light.” Modern Physics. University of
   Virginia. Accessed January 13, 2022.
   https://galileo.phys.virginia.edu/classes/252/spedlite.html#Albert%20Ab
   raham%20Michelson.

   Giovannini, Daniel, Jacquiline Romero, Václav Potoček, Gergely
   Ferenczi, Fiona Speirits, Stephen M. Barnett, Daniele Faccio, and Miles
   J. Padgett. “Spatially Structured Photons That Travel in Free Space
   Slower than the Speed of Light.” Science, February 20, 2015.
   https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/science.aaa3035.

   Goldzak, Tamar, Alexei A. Mailybaev, and Nimrod Moiseyev. “Light Stops
   at Exceptional Points.” Physical Review Letters 120, no. 1 (January 3,
   2018): 013901. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.120.013901.

   Hazen, Robert. “What Makes Diamond Sparkle?” PBS NOVA, January 31,
   2000. https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/article/diamond-science/.

   “How Long Is a Light-Year?” Glenn Learning Technologies Project, May
   13, 2021.
   https://www.grc.nasa.gov/www/k-12/Numbers/Math/Mathematical_Thinking/ho
   w_long_is_a_light_year.htm.

   American Physical Society News. “July 1849: Fizeau Publishes Results of
   Speed of Light Experiment,” July 2010.
   http://www.aps.org/publications/apsnews/201007/physicshistory.cfm.

   Liu, Chien, Zachary Dutton, Cyrus H. Behroozi, and Lene Vestergaard
   Hau. “Observation of Coherent Optical Information Storage in an Atomic
   Medium Using Halted Light Pulses.” Nature 409, no. 6819 (January 2001):
   490–93. https://doi.org/10.1038/35054017.

   NIST. “Meet the Constants.” October 12, 2018.
   https://www.nist.gov/si-redefinition/meet-constants.

   Ouellette, Jennifer. “A Brief History of the Speed of Light.” PBS NOVA,
   February 27, 2015.
   https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/article/brief-history-speed-light/.

   Shea, James H. “Ole Ro/Mer, the Speed of Light, the Apparent Period of
   Io, the Doppler Effect, and the Dynamics of Earth and Jupiter.”
   American Journal of Physics 66, no. 7 (July 1, 1998): 561–69.
   https://doi.org/10.1119/1.19020.

   Siegel, Ethan. “The Failed Experiment That Changed The World.” Forbes,
   April 21, 2017.
   https://www.forbes.com/sites/startswithabang/2017/04/21/the-failed-expe
   riment-that-changed-the-world/.

   Stern, David. “Rømer and the Speed of Light,” October 17, 2016.
   https://pwg.gsfc.nasa.gov/stargaze/Sun4Adop1.htm.
   Vicky Stein
   Vicky Stein

   Social Links Navigation
   Contributing Writer

   Vicky Stein is a science writer based in California. She has a
   bachelor's degree in ecology and evolutionary biology from Dartmouth
   College and a graduate certificate in science writing from the
   University of California, Santa Cruz (2018). Afterwards, she worked as
   a news assistant for PBS NewsHour, and now works as a freelancer
   covering anything from asteroids to zebras. Follow her most recent work
   (and most recent pictures of nudibranchs) on Twitter.
   Back To Top

   Read more
   rows of starlink satellites in the lower left portion of the image with
   Earth in the background and a slither of black space in the lower right
   side of the image.
   Starlink satellites: Facts, tracking and impact on astronomy


   Graphic illustrating quantum entanglement when two particles are
   linking together.
   What is quantum entanglement? The physics of 'spooky action at a
   distance' explained


   A series of lights in concentric circles show the rotation of the night
   sky as Earth spins on its axis
   Why can't we feel the Earth moving?


   A series of white analog clocks against a gray background, their faces
   showing various different times.
   Physicists and philosophers have long struggled to understand the
   nature of time: Here's why


   An image of Mars
   Time travels faster on Mars than on Earth, and here's why


   (Main) The CMB as seen by ACT with polarization represented by small
   black arrows. (Inset) The ACT instrument located in the Atacama desert
   of Chile
   'Hubble tension' is back again as a new cosmic map deepens the puzzle


   Latest in Astronomy
   A Hubble image of Dracula’s Chivito, the largest protoplanetary disk
   ever seen
   'Dracula's Chivito' looks stunning in this tasty Christmas photo from
   the Hubble Telescope


   (Center) A white light of the comet 3I/ATLAS is surrounded by a blue
   glow against a black backgroundHubble Space Telescope captured
   interstellar comet 3I/ATLAS in November. (Corners) Images of the coma
   of 3I/ATLAS
   Interstellar comet 3I/ATLAS reveals weird wobbling jets in rare
   sun-facing tail


   An artist&#039;s illustration of the various exoplanets found, with
   rows of colorful planets of all colors and sizes over a dark background
   The most exciting exoplanet discoveries of 2025


   2025 was a big year for black holes
   The biggest black hole breakthroughs of 2025


   A bright ball of light shoots red and purple and white sparks in front
   of a galaxy background with stars, purple, and blue colors on it
   Dark matter may be made of pieces of giant, exotic objects — and
   astronomers think they know how to look for them


   A glowing ball of blue light stands out against a black background
   What old, dying stars teach us about axions as a candidate for dark
   matter


   Latest in References
   Split image showing screenshots from six James Cameron sci-fi movies.
   James Cameron's sci-fi movies ranked, worst to best


   Screenshot from The War Between The Land And The Sea.
   Who are the Sea Devils? The classic 'Doctor Who' monsters in 'The War
   Between the Land and the Sea'


   Split image showing space zombies from three sci-fi franchises: the
   movie The Last Days on Mars, the game Dead Space (Remake), and the book
   Death troopers.
   10 space zombie movies, books, and games to prepare you for the night
   of the intergalactic dead


   Split image showing three Doctor Who spin-offs: An Adventure in Space
   and Time, The Sarah Jane Adventures, and Torchwood
   'Doctor Who' spin-offs ranked: From K-9 and Daleks! to 'Class', 'The
   Sarah Jane Adventures' and 'Torchwood'


   A full moon is pictured illuminating a haze of cloud against a black
   night sky.
   January full moon 2026: When, where and how to see the Wolf Moon


   Split image showing three Terminator games: Terminator: Dark Fate –
   Defiance, Terminator 3: The Redemption, &amp; Terminator: Resistance
   5 Terminator games that are actually good


   MORE FROM SPACE...
    1. Four images next to each other, from left to right an image of a
       green and brown Earthen landscape, a photo of president Trump
       wearing a red tie and black suit, a photo of a metal ball with
       wires coming out and a glowing blue light in a deep space image
       1
       The 12 biggest space stories of 2025 — according to you
    2. 2
       Dark matter may be made of pieces of giant, exotic objects — and
       astronomers think they know how to look for them
    3. 3
       Most normal matter in the universe isn't found in planets, stars or
       galaxies – an astronomer explains where it's distributed
    4. 4
       The best streaming device out there: Which one comes out on top —
       Amazon Fire TV Stick, Roku Ultra, Apple TV and Google TV Streamer?
    5. 5
       The best sci-fi and space games of 2025, ranked

   Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and
   leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
   [mednnv697g1760357120.png] Add as a preferred source on Google

     * About Us
     * Contact Future's experts
     * Terms and conditions
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookies policy
     * Accessibility Statement
     * Advertise with us
     * Web notifications
     * Careers

   © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY
   10036.

   (BUTTON) Close

   Please login or signup to comment

   Please wait...
   (BUTTON) Login (BUTTON) Sign Up
