   #My Islam » Feed My Islam » Comments Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON) oEmbed
   (XML)

     * Home
     * Companion Series
     * Du'as
     * 99 Names of Allah
     * Prophet Stories
     * Prayer Times
     * Qibla Direction
     * Tasbih Counter
     * Islamic Games
     * Quran Verses
     * Islamic Dictionary
     * Online Qur'an

   Support the site
   [svg%3E] [Playstore.png]

   Get it on

   Google Playstore
   [svg%3E] [Apple.png]

   Download it on

   App Store

Follow Us

   my islam youtube channel my islam youtube channel my islam twitter my
   islam twitter Instagram channel Instagram channel
   My Islam Homepage
     * Islamic Toolskeyboard_arrow_down
       Prayer Timeschevron_right
       Get accurate prayers times online and learn the pillars of salah.
       Qibla Direction chevron_right
       Find the exact direction for salah with our online Qibla
       experiences. The first, traditional compass, the second augmented
       reality.
       Tasbih Counterchevron_right
       Recite dhikr that are light for the tongue to remember but heavy on
       the scales.
       Third of Night Calculatorchevron_right
       "And rise at 'the last' part of the night, offering additional
       prayers, so your Lord may raise you to a station of praise."
       (Quran, 17:79)
       Coloring Bookchevron_right
       A unqiue experience for kids and adults. With over 8+ published
       books on famous Islamic stories from Qur'an and Hadith. We've even
       included descriptions for each coloring page and audio narration.
       Islamic Games & Quizzes chevron_right
       A fun and engaging way to learn more about Islam. You can use our
       memorization games or test your knowledge on a subject. Insha'Allah
       it will provide the motivation to read more to ace our tests.
       Qibla Direction
       Find the Correct Direction for your prayer
       Explore chevron_right
     * Guideskeyboard_arrow_down
       99 Names of Allahchevron_right
       "Allah has ninety-nine Names and whoever believes in their meanings
       and acts accordingly, will enter Paradise." (Bukhari 6410)
       Prophet Stories chevron_right
       Learn from the journey of each Prophet as they were perfect role
       models for all of us to follow.
       Du'a Centerchevron_right
       Explore the archive of all the du'as published on the site.
       Includes Qur'anic supplications, du'as of the prophets, and many
       other du'as from hadith.
       Companion Serieschevron_right
       The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best people are those of my generation,
       and then those who will come after them." In this series you can
       learn the stories of those who lived side by side with the Prophet.
       Hisnul Muslimchevron_right
       The famous du'a book compiled by Sa'id bin Ali bin Wahf Al-Qahtani
       which groups the supplications with everyday events just as Prophet
       Muhammad (ﷺ) recited them.
       Qur'an Verseschevron_right
       Explore the Qur'an by subject matter, we've compiled a list of
       topics and all the verses about that topic.
       Du'a Center
       Learn the du'a of Prophet Adam (عَلَيْهِ ٱلسَّلَامُ)
       Explore chevron_right
     * Resourceskeyboard_arrow_down
       Islamic Terms Dictionarychevron_right
       Glossary of Arabic words and phrases from Qur'an and everyday
       expressions.
       Free Qur'an PDFchevron_right
       Elegantly designed and interactive PDFs of every Surah to make
       reading and understanding the Qur'an easy.
       Purchase 99 Names Ebookchevron_right
       The content is available free on the site, the ebook was produced
       to help support the site and future projects. Any donation amount
       will receive the ebook.
       Your Islamic Companion App
       Over 1000+ reviews and 4.9+ star rating. The My Islam App is the
       ultimate ad-free companion app to help you explore the Qur'an,
       learn new du'as, and update you on the latest prayer times. There
       is so much more we're leaving out, Insha'Allah you'll give us a
       chance to show you around once you download the app.
       Download keyboard_arrow_down
       [svg%3E] [Playstore.png]
       Get it on
       Google Playstore
       [svg%3E] [Apple.png]
       Download it on
       App Store
       Interactive PDFs
       Surah Fatiha PDF
       Downloadchevron_right
     * Qur'an

   Donate
     * Free Course
     * Download App keyboard_arrow_down
          + Android
          +
          + IOS

AN-NOOR/AL-NUR MEANING - 99 NAMES OF ALLAH:

   ﷽
   93.
   arrow_back_ios
   An-Nur Arabic Text Calligraphy
   arrow_forward_ios

An-Noor/Al-Nur

   (The Light)

An-Nur Meaning:

   The Illuminator, The One who Reveals, The One Who Guides.

   Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ call himself An-Noor (in Arabic:
   ٱلْنُّورُ), meaning The One who illuminates and reveals the divine
   light of all the worlds. His light illuminates the heart and provides
   clarity and guidance. Anyone who turns their back to the true light
   will be in darkness.
   [svg%3E] [section-divide.png]

Mentions of An-Nur:
From Quran & Hadith

   Arabic Root:
   From the root nun-waw-ra (ن و ر), which has the following classical
   Arabic connotations: to give light, to illuminate, to fill with light,
   to clarify, to reveal, to make visible, to blossom, to be in bloom
   (revealed), to be flaming, blazing and apparent to the senses, to
   enlighten, give counsel, and give advice.

   Allah's Light Described:
   The light of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ as described in the hadith
   and Qur'an, Abu Musa reported: The Messenger of Allah ﷺ was standing
   amongst us and he told us five things. He said: Verily the Exalted and
   Mighty God does not sleep, and it does not befit Him to sleep. He
   lowers the scale and lifts it. The deeds in the night are taken up to
   Him before the deeds of the day, and the deeds of the day before the
   deeds of the night. His veil is the light. In the hadith narrated by
   Abu Bakr (instead of the word "light"), it is fire. If he withdraws it
   (the veil), the splendor of His countenance would consume His creation
   so far as His sight reaches.^ [1]

   Musa (as) was the only Prophet to have spoken with Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ, and in his conversation, He asked if he could see him,
   "And when Moses arrived at Our appointed time and his Lord spoke to
   him, he said, "My Lord, show me [Yourself] that I may look at You."
   [Allah] said, "You will not see Me, but look at the mountain; if it
   should remain in place, then you will see Me." But when his Lord
   appeared to the mountain, He rendered it level, and Moses fell
   unconscious. And when he awoke, he said, 'Exalted are You! I have
   repented to You, and I am the first of the believers.'" Qur'an 7:143 So
   we learn that Allah's light is too powerful to be witnessed, "Vision
   perceives Him not, but He perceives [all] vision; and He is the Subtle,
   the Acquainted." (Qur'an 6:103)

   The Various Interpretations:
   It may be obvious, but worth mentioning. When we say Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ is Al-Nur (The Light), it is not meant in the literal
   sense. The light we see is created and is not eternal. It gets emitted,
   absorbed, reflected, and refracted. Most scholars agree for it to be a
   name and attribute of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ it must be
   understood by the consequence and the properties of light. Light
   illuminates, makes things visible, and shows the way through the
   darkness. This leads to many interpretations of the name An-Nur which
   we'll explore in detail.

   The first understanding is through His ability to manifest creation.
   Darkness is the absence of light; when we have no light, what remains
   is darkness. Similarly, it can be said if something did not exist, it
   was hidden or unknown. Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ has the power to
   make them visible or known by creating them. It may seem paradoxical,
   but the natural state of existence is nothingness. We cannot fathom
   what absolute nothingness is, but that's the state from which all
   things come - it's the origin. People mistakenly assume that life is
   just the arrangement of atoms and molecules, but who created the atoms
   and molecules? Who was responsible for its perfect, orderly
   arrangement? What keeps everything going and allows them to remain? The
   only logical conclusion to this question is Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ. Without Him saying, kun fa-yakoon, "Be, and it is!" Qur'an
   36:82, they would not be known.

   A second interpretation is light manifests; it makes things that are
   hidden - visible. His light operates at many levels. There is nothing
   that can be hidden from Him. He is the Al-Baseer (All-Seeing) and
   As-Sami (All-Hearing). His light reveals, and nothing escapes His view.
   "And with Him are the keys of the unseen; none knows them except Him.
   And He knows what is on the land and in the sea. Not a leaf falls but
   that He knows it." (Qur'an 6:59)

   He also illuminates mankind through His book and His Messengers (may
   peace be upon them). He's a guide to those lost. So, in this sense, He
   lights upon light. From the darkness of nonexistence to the light of
   existence, from unguided to guided.
   يَـٰٓأَهۡلَ ٱلۡكِتَٰبِ قَدۡ جَآءَكُمۡ رَسُولُنَا يُبَيِّنُ لَكُمۡ
   كَثِيرٗا مِّمَّا كُنتُمۡ تُخۡفُونَ مِنَ ٱلۡكِتَٰبِ وَيَعۡفُواْ عَن
   كَثِيرٖۚ قَدۡ جَآءَكُم مِّنَ ٱللَّهِ نُورٞ وَكِتَٰبٞ مُّبِينٞ

   yaaa Ahlal kitaabi qad jaaa’akum Rasoolunaa yubaiyinu lakum kaseeram
   mimmmaa kuntum tukhfoona minal Kitaabi wa ya’foo ‘an kaseer; qad
   jaaa’akum minal laahi noorunw wa Kitaabum Mubeen

   English Translation:
   "O People of the Scripture, there has come to you Our Messenger making
   clear to you much of what you used to conceal of the Scripture and
   overlooking much. There has come to you from Allah a light and a clear
   Book." — (Qur'an 5:15)

   The Darkness Within:
   Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ describes Himself in verse 35 of Surah
   Nur as the "light of the heaven and the earth." Everything that comes
   from Him comes through His light. To contrast, Shaykh Tosun Bayrak
   mentions how "the light of faith eliminates the darknesses of
   infidelity and sin within and without, bringing us to the light of
   Truth and salvation and serenity. The devil, and one's own devil, the
   ego, are those who like to operate in darkness and enter dark houses
   they will not enter that Divine house, the heart illuminated by the
   light of Faith."

   The darkness in the believer is their ego. It calls us to pursue
   pleasure and things prohibited to pull us from Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ. We can bring light into our life and the world, by and
   large, through following the commandments of Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ
   وَتَعَٰلَىٰ. By keeping ties of kinship, spreading peace, oppressing
   evils, gift-giving, feeding friends and neighbors, praying salah,
   remembering Him in our prayers, giving zakat to the needy, being
   patient, practicing gratitude, respecting and upholding the rights of
   parents, children, and women. This is the guidance of Allah
   سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ which illuminates the hearts.
   ۞ٱللَّهُ نُورُ ٱلسَّمَٰوَٰتِ وَٱلۡأَرۡضِۚ مَثَلُ نُورِهِۦ كَمِشۡكَوٰةٖ
   فِيهَا مِصۡبَاحٌۖ ٱلۡمِصۡبَاحُ فِي زُجَاجَةٍۖ ٱلزُّجَاجَةُ كَأَنَّهَا
   كَوۡكَبٞ دُرِّيّٞ يُوقَدُ مِن شَجَرَةٖ مُّبَٰرَكَةٖ زَيۡتُونَةٖ لَّا
   شَرۡقِيَّةٖ وَلَا غَرۡبِيَّةٖ يَكَادُ زَيۡتُهَا يُضِيٓءُ وَلَوۡ لَمۡ
   تَمۡسَسۡهُ نَارٞۚ نُّورٌ عَلَىٰ نُورٖۚ يَهۡدِي ٱللَّهُ لِنُورِهِۦ مَن
   يَشَآءُۚ وَيَضۡرِبُ ٱللَّهُ ٱلۡأَمۡثَٰلَ لِلنَّاسِۗ وَٱللَّهُ بِكُلِّ
   شَيۡءٍ عَلِيمٞ

   Allaahu noorus samaawaati wal ard; masalu noorihee kamishkaatin feehaa
   misbaah; almisbaahu fee zujaajatin azzujaajatu ka annahaa kawkabun
   durriyyuny yooqadu min shajaratim mubaarakatin zaitoonatil laa
   shariqiyyatinw wa laa gharbiyyatiny yakaadu zaituhaa yudeee’u wa law
   lam tamsashu naar; noorun ‘alaa noor; yahdil laahu linoorihee mai
   yashaaa’; wa yadribul laahul amsaala linnaas; wallaahu bikulli shai’in
   Aleem

   English Translation:
   "Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. The example of His
   light is like a niche within which is a lamp, the lamp is within glass,
   the glass as if it were a pearly [white] star lit from [the oil of] a
   blessed olive tree, neither of the east nor of the west, whose oil
   would almost glow even if untouched by fire. Light upon light. Allah
   guides to His light whom He wills. And Allah presents examples for the
   people, and Allah is Knowing of all things." — (Qur'an 24:35)

   Supplication of Prophet Muhammad ﷺ:
   We can ask Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ to bless us with His light
   just as Prophet Muhammad ﷺ taught the sahabah.^ [2]
   اللّهُـمَّ اجْعَـلْ فِي قَلْبـي نُوراً وَفي لِسَـانِي نُوراً وَفِي
   سَمْعِي نُوراً, وَفِي بَصَرِيِ نُوراً, وَمِنْ فََوْقِي نُوراً , وَ مِنْ
   تَحْتِي نُوراً, وَ عَنْ يَمِينيِ نُوراَ, وعَنْ شِمَالِي نُوراً, وَمْن
   أَماَمِي نُوراً, وَمِنْ خَلْفيِ نُوراَ, واجْعَلْ فِي نَفْسِي نُوراً,
   وأَعْظِمْ لِي نُوراً, وَعظِّمْ لِي نُوراً, وَاجْعَلْ لِي نُوراً,
   واجْعَلنِي نُوراً, أللَّهُمَّ أَعْطِنِي نُوراً, واجْعَلْ فِي عَصَبِي
   نُوراً, وَفِي لَحْمِي نُوراً, وَفِي دَمِي نُوراً وَفِي شَعْرِي نُوراً,
   وفِي بَشَرِي نُوراً (أَللَّهُمَّ اجِعَلْ لِي نُوراً فِي قّبْرِي وَ
   نُوراَ فِي عِظاَمِي) (وَزِدْنِي نُوراً, وَزِدْنِي نُوراَ , وَزِدْنِي
   نُوراً) (وَهَبْ لِي نُوراً عَلَى نُوراً)

   Allāhummaj'al fī qalbī nūran. wa fī lisānī nūran. wa fī sam`ī nūran. wa
   fī baṣarī nūran. wa min fawqī nūran. wa min taḥtī nūran. wa `an yamīnī
   nūran. wa `an shimālī nūran. wa min 'amāmī nūran. wa min khalfī nūran.
   waj`al fī nafsī nūran. wa 'a`ẓim lī nūran. wa `ẓẓim lī nūran. waj`allī
   nūran. waj`alnī nūran. Allāhumma 'a`tinī nūran. waj'al fī `aṣabī nūran.
   wa fī laḥmī nūran. wa fī damī nūran. wa fī sha`rī nūran. wa fī basharī
   nūran. [Allāhummaj`allī nūran fī qabrīwa nūran fī `iẓāmī.] [Wa zidnī
   nūran. wa zidnī nūran. wa zidnī nūran.] [Wa hab lī nūran `alā nūr.]

   English Translation:
   "O Allah, place light in my heart, and on my tongue light, and in my
   ears light and in my sight light, and above me light, and below me
   light, and to my right light, and to my left light, and before me light
   and behind me light. Place in my soul light. Magnify for me light, and
   amplify for me light. Make for me light and make me a light. O Allah,
   grant me light, and place light in my nerves, and in my body light and
   in my blood light and in my hair light and in my skin light. [O Allah,
   make for me a light in my grave... and a light in my bones.] [Increase
   me in light, increase me in light, increase me in light.] [Grant me
   light upon light.]"

   Reflecting on your light:
   Every person has a light that emanates from them. The intensity at
   which it shines is determined by their upright character and the
   righteousness of their deeds. Every good you do illuminates the path
   toward paradise, and every evil takes from it. The intention of the
   believer, then, should be to focus on ways in which their being is like
   a moth to a flame, attracting others because of their light and
   goodness.
   يَوۡمَ تَرَى ٱلۡمُؤۡمِنِينَ وَٱلۡمُؤۡمِنَٰتِ يَسۡعَىٰ نُورُهُم بَيۡنَ
   أَيۡدِيهِمۡ وَبِأَيۡمَٰنِهِمۖ بُشۡرَىٰكُمُ ٱلۡيَوۡمَ جَنَّـٰتٞ تَجۡرِي
   مِن تَحۡتِهَا ٱلۡأَنۡهَٰرُ خَٰلِدِينَ فِيهَاۚ ذَٰلِكَ هُوَ ٱلۡفَوۡزُ
   ٱلۡعَظِيمُ
   يَوۡمَ يَقُولُ ٱلۡمُنَٰفِقُونَ وَٱلۡمُنَٰفِقَٰتُ لِلَّذِينَ ءَامَنُواْ
   ٱنظُرُونَا نَقۡتَبِسۡ مِن نُّورِكُمۡ قِيلَ ٱرۡجِعُواْ وَرَآءَكُمۡ
   فَٱلۡتَمِسُواْ نُورٗاۖ فَضُرِبَ بَيۡنَهُم بِسُورٖ لَّهُۥ بَابُۢ
   بَاطِنُهُۥ فِيهِ ٱلرَّحۡمَةُ وَظَٰهِرُهُۥ مِن قِبَلِهِ ٱلۡعَذَابُ

   (12) Yawma taral mu’mineena walmu’minaati yas’aa nooruhum baina
   aydeehim wa bi aymaanihim bushraakumul yawma jannaatun tajree min
   tahtihal anhaaru khaalideena feeha; zaalika huwal fawzul ‘azeem (13)
   Yawma yaqoolul munaafiqoona walmunaafiqaatu lil lazeena aamanu
   unzuroonaa naqtabis min noorikum qeelarji’oo waraaa’akum faltamisoo
   nooran faduriba bainahum bisooril lahoo baabun, baatinuhoo feehir
   rahmatu wa zaahiruhoo min qibalihi-‘azaab

   English Translation:
   "(12) On the Day you see the believing men and believing women, their
   light proceeding before them and on their right, [it will be said],
   “Your good tidings today are [of] gardens beneath which rivers flow,
   wherein you will abide eternally.” That is what is the great
   attainment. (13) On the [same] Day the hypocrite men and hypocrite
   women will say to those who believed, “Wait for us that we may acquire
   some of your light.” It will be said, “Go back behind you and seek
   light.” And a wall will be placed between them with a door, its
   interior containing mercy, but on the outside of it is torment." —
   (Qur'an 57:12-13)

   Ask Allah سُبْحَٰنَهُۥ وَتَعَٰلَىٰ for forgiveness and to increase your
   light so we don't suffer the fate of those who get left behind because
   their light was too weak. The du'a has been underlined below for your
   reference.
   يَـٰٓأَيُّهَا ٱلَّذِينَ ءَامَنُواْ تُوبُوٓاْ إِلَى ٱللَّهِ تَوۡبَةٗ
   نَّصُوحًا عَسَىٰ رَبُّكُمۡ أَن يُكَفِّرَ عَنكُمۡ سَيِّـَٔاتِكُمۡ
   وَيُدۡخِلَكُمۡ جَنَّـٰتٖ تَجۡرِي مِن تَحۡتِهَا ٱلۡأَنۡهَٰرُ يَوۡمَ لَا
   يُخۡزِي ٱللَّهُ ٱلنَّبِيَّ وَٱلَّذِينَ ءَامَنُواْ مَعَهُۥۖ نُورُهُمۡ
   يَسۡعَىٰ بَيۡنَ أَيۡدِيهِمۡ وَبِأَيۡمَٰنِهِمۡ يَقُولُونَ رَبَّنَآ
   أَتۡمِمۡ لَنَا نُورَنَا وَٱغۡفِرۡ لَنَآۖ إِنَّكَ عَلَىٰ كُلِّ شَيۡءٖ
   قَدِيرٞ

   Yaaa ayyuhal lazeena aamanoo toobooo ilal laahi tawbatan nasoohan ‘asaa
   rabbukum any-yukaffira ‘ankum sayyi aatikum wa yudkhilakum jannaatin
   tajree min tahtihal anhaaru yawma laa yukhzil laahun nabiyya wallazeena
   aamanoo ma’ahoo nooruhum yas’aa baina aydeehim wa bi aymaanihim
   yaqooloona rabbanaaa atmim lanaa nooranaa waghfir lana innaka ‘alaa
   kulli shai’in qadeer

   English Translation:
   "O you who have believed, repent to Allah with sincere repentance.
   Perhaps your Lord will remove from you your misdeeds and admit you into
   gardens beneath which rivers flow [on] the Day when Allah will not
   disgrace the Prophet and those who believed with him. Their light will
   proceed before them and on their right; they will say, 'Our Lord,
   perfect for us our light and forgive us. Indeed, You are over all
   things competent.'" — (Qur'an 66:8)

   References:
   [1] Sahih Muslim 179c
   [2] Hisnul Muslim 19 | variations exists, see also Sahih Bukhari 6316,
   Sahih (Al-Albani) Al-Adab Al-Mufrad 695, and/or Jami at-Tirmidhi 3419
   ALL 99 NAMES OF ALLAH WITH MEANING
   An-Nafi
   Al-Hadi

   chevron_left AN-NURchevron_right
   TAKE OUR QUIZ
   99 Names of Allah
   ____________________search
   Explore by Attributes of Allah (swt).
   1. Ar-Rahman
   الرَّحْمَنُ
   2. Ar-Raheem
   الرَّحِيمُ
   3. Al-Malik
   الْمَلِكُ
   4. Al-Quddus
   الْقُدُّوسُ
   5. As-Salam
   السَّلاَمُ
   6. Al-Mumin
   الْمُؤْمِنُ
   7. Al-Muhaymin
   الْمُهَيْمِنُ
   8. Al-Aziz
   الْعَزِيزُ
   9. Al-Jabbar
   الْجَبَّارُ
   10. Al-Mutakabbir
   الْمُتَكَبِّر
   11. Al-Khaliq
   الْخَالِقُ
   12. Al-Bari
   الْبَارِئُ
   13. Al-Musawwir
   الْمُصَوِّرُ
   14. Al-Ghaffar
   الْغَفَّارُ
   15. Al-Qahhar
   الْقَهَّارُ
   16. Al-Wahhab
   الْوَهَّابُ
   17. Ar-Razzaq
   الرَّزَّاقُ
   18. Al-Fattah
   الْفَتَّاحُ
   19. Al-Alim
   اَلْعَلِيْمُ
   20. Al-Qabid
   الْقَابِضُ
   21. Al-Basit
   الْبَاسِطُ
   22. Al-Khafid
   الْخَافِضُ
   23. Ar-Rafi
   الرَّافِعُ
   24. Al-Mu'izz
   الْمُعِزُّ
   25. Al-Muzil
   ٱلْمُذِلُّ
   26. As-Sami
   السَّمِيعُ
   27. Al-Baseer
   الْبَصِيرُ
   28. Al-Hakam
   الْحَكَمُ
   29. Al-Adl
   الْعَدْلُ
   30. Al-Lateef
   اللَّطِيفُ
   31. Al-Khabir
   الْخَبِيرُ
   32. Al-Haleem
   الْحَلِيمُ
   33. Al-Azeem
   الْعَظِيمُ
   34. Al-Ghafoor
   الْغَفُور
   35. Ash-Shakur
   الشَّكُورُ
   36. Al-Aliyy
   الْعَلِيُّ
   37. Al-Kabeer
   الْكَبِيرُ
   38. Al-Hafiz
   الْحَفِيظُ
   39. Al-Muqeet
   المُقيِت
   40. Al-Haseeb
   الْحسِيبُ
   41. Al-Jaleel
   الْجَلِيلُ
   42. Al-Karim
   الْكَرِيمُ
   43. Ar-Raqib
   الرَّقِيبُ
   44. Al-Mujeeb
   ٱلْمُجِيبُ
   45. Al-Wasi
   الْوَاسِعُ
   46. Al-Hakeem
   الْحَكِيمُ
   47. Al-Wadud
   الْوَدُودُ
   48. Al-Majeed
   الْمَجِيدُ
   49. Al-Ba'ith
   الْبَاعِثُ
   50. Ash-Shaheed
   الشَّهِيدُ
   51. Al-Haqq
   الْحَقُ
   52. Al-Wakeel
   الْوَكِيلُ
   53. Al-Qawiyy
   الْقَوِيُ
   54. Al-Matin
   الْمَتِينُ
   55. Al-Waliy
   الْوَلِيُّ
   56. Al-Hameed
   الْحَمِيدُ
   57. Al-Muhsi
   الْمُحْصِي
   58. Al-Mubdi
   الْمُبْدِئُ
   59. Al-Muid
   ٱلْمُعِيدُ
   60. Al-Muhyi
   الْمُحْيِي
   61. Al-Mumeet
   اَلْمُمِيتُ
   62. Al-Hayy
   الْحَيُّ
   63. Al-Qayyum
   الْقَيُّومُ
   64. Al-Wajid
   الْوَاجِدُ
   65. Al-Maajid
   الْمَاجِدُ
   66. Al-Wahid
   الْواحِدُ
   67. Al-Ahad
   اَلاَحَدُ
   68. As-Samad
   الصَّمَدُ
   69. Al-Qadir
   الْقَادِرُ
   70. Al-Muqtadir
   الْمُقْتَدِرُ
   71. Al-Muqaddim
   الْمُقَدِّمُ
   72. Al-Muakhkhir
   الْمُؤَخِّرُ
   73. Al-Awwal
   الأوَّلُ
   74. Al-Akhir
   الآخِرُ
   75. Az-Zaahir
   الظَّاهِرُ
   76. Al-Baatin
   الْبَاطِنُ
   77. Al-Wali
   الْوَالِي
   78. Al-Mutaali
   الْمُتَعَالِي
   79. Al-Barr
   الْبَرُّ
   80. At-Tawwab
   التَّوَابُ
   81. Al-Muntaqim
   الْمُنْتَقِمُ
   82. Al-Afuw
   العَفُوُ
   83. Ar-Rauf
   الرَّؤُوفُ
   84. Malikul-Mulk
   َمَالِكُ ٱلْمُلْكُ
   85. Dhul-Jalaali-Wal-Ikram
   ذُوالْجَلاَلِ وَالإكْرَامِ
   86. Al-Muqsit
   الْمُقْسِطُ
   87. Al-Jami
   الْجَامِعُ
   88. Al-Ghaniy
   ٱلْغَنيُّ
   89. Al-Mughni
   ٱلْمُغْنِيُّ
   90. Al-Mani
   اَلْمَانِعُ
   91. Ad-Darr
   الضَّارَ
   92. An-Naafi
   النَّافِعُ
   93. An-Noor
   النُّورُ
   94. Al-Hadi
   الْهَادِي
   95. Al-Badi
   الْبَدِيعُ
   96. Al-Baaqi
   اَلْبَاقِي
   97. Al-Warith
   الْوَارِثُ
   98. Ar-Rasheed
   الرَّشِيدُ
   99. As-Sabur
   الصَّبُورُ
   skip_previous play_arrow skip_next
   0:00/0:00
   volume_up
   [svg%3E] [My-Islam-80x80.jpg]

MY ISLAM

   © My Islam. All Rights Reserved.
   Support the site
   my islam youtube channel my islam youtube channel
   my islam twitter my islam twitter
   Instagram channel Instagram channel

   Quick Links:
   Online Quran
   Qibla Direction
   Tasbih Counter
   Islamic Dictionary
   Hisnul Muslim Du’as
   Prayer Times Online
   Dua Center
   99 Names of Allah
   Islamic Teachings
   Prophet Stories
   Islamic Games & Quizzes
   Companion Series
   Explore Qur’an By Topic
   Contact Us

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WMWBGFQ
