   #EarthSky » What is a light-year? Comments Feed JSON oEmbed (JSON)
   oEmbed (XML)

Sign Up for Our Amazing Newsletter!

   A daily update by email. Science news, great photos, sky alerts.
   ____________________ Subscribe
   Your email address will only be used for EarthSky content.
   Privacy Policy
   Thank you! Your submission has been received!
   Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
   EarthSky
   One Earth. One Sky. EarthSky.

   Tonight Space Sun Earth Human Best Places to Stargaze EarthSky
   Community Photos About Store Donate Contact Us ____________________
   Submit
   Subscribe
   Tonight

   Tonight Brightest Stars Astronomy Essentials Moon Phases Clusters
   Nebulae Galaxies Favorite Star Patterns Constellations
   Astronomy Essentials
   Tonight

Visible planets and night sky guide for December and January

   Marcy Curran
   December 25, 2025
   Astronomy Essentials

Top 6 favorite EarthSky videos from 2025. Watch them here!

   Kelly Kizer Whitt
   December 23, 2025
   Tonight

Latest sunrises late December and early January

   Editors of EarthSky
   December 23, 2025
   Space
   Sun
   Earth
   Human

   Human Spaceflight
   Best Places to Stargaze
   Community Photos

   View Community Photos Trending Submit a Photo
   About
   Store
   Donate
   Share:
   Sky ArchiveSpace

What is a light-year?

   Posted by
   Christopher Crockett
   and
   February 20, 2013

   A light-year is how astronomers measure distance in space. It’s defined
   by how far a beam of light travels in one year – a distance of six
   trillion miles. Think of it as the bigger, badder cousin of the inch,
   the mile, the kilometer, and the furlong. If you like to keep up with
   what’s going on in astronomy, it’s worth spending a little bit of time
   understanding what the deal is with this funny unit of measurement.
   Astronomers use a beam of light as their reference to finding distances
   to space objects. Light beam image via Shutterstock

   Have you ever been on your way to meet some friends and, while en
   route, called to tell them you’re running late? If you’re like me, you
   might tell them “I’m about ten minutes away”. You’re using how long it
   will take you to get there as a substitute for how far away you are.
   Astronomers do the same thing when figuring out the distance to a star
   or galaxy, but instead of relying on how fast they could drive or walk,
   they use a beam of light as their reference.

   Why do things this way? First, light is convenient. Throughout the
   universe, all light travels at exactly the same speed: about 670
   million miles per hour. We don’t usually think about light traveling
   anywhere because when we flick on a light switch – there it is! We
   don’t have to wait for the room to light up. It happens
   instantaneously. Except that it’s not instantaneous, just insanely
   fast. In fact, let’s pause for a second and reflect on how ludicrously
   quick the speed of light is.
   If you could travel at the speed of light, you could circle the globe
   of Earth almost eight times in one second.
   Credit: NASA/NOAA/GSFC/Suomi NPP/VIIRS/Norman Kuring

   Traveling at that speed, you would encircle the globe of Earth almost
   eight times in one second.

   Impressive! Certainly faster than traveling by airplane. So if you were
   to travel off the Earth in a straight line at light speed, you’d get
   pretty far in the same amount of time, right? Actually, since space is
   so vast, you wouldn’t have even made it to the moon. Travel to the moon
   takes about a second-and-a-half, at light speed. Travel to the sun at
   light speed takes about eight minutes. Can you even imagine? Traveling
   at a speed where you cross nearly 200,000 miles every second for eight
   full minutes would only get you to the center of our solar system.
   A light beam needs only 8 minutes to travel the 93 million miles (150
   million kilometers) from the sun to the Earth. Image via Brews OHare on
   Wikimedia Commons.

   The fact that light takes time to get anywhere has an interesting side
   effect. If light from the sun takes eight minutes to get to us, then
   we’re actually seeing the sun as it was eight minutes ago. We’re
   looking into the past!

   While this sounds a little crazy, it’s actually something with which
   you’re already familiar. If you’ve ever seen fireworks, for example,
   you know that you see the explosion and then a few seconds later you
   hear it. If you close your eyes during the fireworks show, you’d only
   have your ears to know when things were happening. Since it takes some
   time for the sound to get to you, you’d always be hearing things a few
   seconds after they happened. The same happens with light: we only see
   something once the light from that event actually gets to our eyes.
   When we’re looking across a room, the time delay is only a few
   billionths of a second. But when we start looking across large enough
   distances, the light becomes noticeably delayed like the sounds are
   from exploding fireworks.
   The red star in the center of this picture is Proxima Centauri, our
   sun’s nearest neighbor among the stars. A beam of light from this star
   takes about 4 years to travel to Earth. Image via
   hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu

   The main reason for using light years, however, is because the
   distances we deal with in space are immense. If we stick to miles or
   kilometers we quickly run into unwieldy numbers just measuring the
   distance to the nearest star: a dim red dwarf called Proxima Centauri
   that sits a mere 24,000,000,000,000 miles away! Using a longer yard
   stick, so to speak, helps keep the numbers at least manageable. To an
   astronomer, the distance to Proxima Centauri is only four light years.
   Put another way, it takes the light from our stellar next door neighbor
   four years to get to Earth.

   The Milky Way galaxy in which our sun and all the stars we see at night
   reside spans 100,000 light-years from one end to the other. Putting
   that into perspective, the duration of recorded human history is
   roughly 5,000 years. So light from a star at one end of our galaxy
   takes 20 times longer than all of recorded history to get to the other
   end.
   Andromeda Galaxy Astronomers measure the distance to the Andromeda
   galaxy using light-years. One light-year equals about 6 trillion miles.
   This galaxy is over 2 million light-years from Earth. Image credit:
   Adam Evans via Wikipedia

   Moving beyond our galaxy, it’s just over two million light years to our
   nearest galactic neighbor, the Andromeda galaxy. The light we currently
   see from that galaxy left there about the same time the ancestors of
   modern humans were first discovering stone tools.

   Our last stop takes us to the edge of the visible universe. It’s also
   here where the trickiness of measuring distance in an ever-expanding
   universe becomes apparent. The light we see coming from the farthest
   depths of the universe has been traveling across the cosmos for almost
   three times longer than our planet has existed: nearly 14 billion
   years! But there’s a catch: we cannot say that the edge of the visible
   universe is 14 billion light-years away.
   Hubble Ultra Deep Field image from 2004, one of the deepest images of
   galaxies in our universe. Credit: S. Beckwith & the HUDF Working Group
   (STScI), HST, ESA, NASA

   Why? Because the universe has grown larger in that time! A galaxy whose
   light took 14 billion years to reach our little planet has, in the
   intervening aeons, moved even further away. The current physical
   distance to that remote beacon, if we stopped the universe from
   expanding and stretched out a really long tape measure, is just over 46
   billion light years! Even in light years, measuring distances across
   the universe becomes unwieldy. But measuring in something familiar,
   like miles, is truly humbling. From here to the edge of our vision
   spans a distance of approximately 276,000,000,000,000,000,000,000
   miles.

   And it’s getting bigger every day.

   Bottom line: How far is a light-year? It’s the distance a beam of light
   travels in one year – a distance of six trillion miles.
   Bluesky42FacebookThreads6BufferShare
   48
   SHARES
   Posted
   February 20, 2013
    in
   Sky Archive

Christopher Crockett

   View Articles

About the Author:

   Chris Crockett got his Ph.D. in astronomy from UCLA in 2011 and worked
   at Lowell Observatory and the U.S. Naval Observatory. He then realized
   he enjoyed talking about astronomy a lot more than actually doing it.
   After being awarded a Mass Media Fellowship in 2013 by the American
   Association for the Advancement of Science, he spent a summer writing
   for Scientific American, then went on to become the staff astronomy
   writer at Science News from 2014 - 2017. These days, he freelances,
   focusing on stories about astronomy, planetary science, and physics.
   His work has appeared in Science News, Scientific American, Smithsonian
   Magazine, Knowable, Sky & Telescope, and the American Physical
   Society's online magazine Physics.

Like what you read?
Subscribe and receive daily news delivered to your inbox.

   ____________________ Subscribe
   Your email address will only be used for EarthSky content. Privacy
   Policy
   Thank you! Your submission has been received!
   Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.

More from

Christopher Crockett

   View All

What is the zodiac? Why is it important in astronomy?

   May 28, 2025

What are gamma ray bursts?

   October 14, 2023

What are white dwarf stars? How do they form?

   April 25, 2023

What are coronal mass ejections? Big burps of sun-stuff!

   April 24, 2023

Tonight

Visible planets and night sky guide for December and January

Comments

   EarthSky YouTube Channel
   YouTube
   Twitter
   Facebook
   Instagram
   Store
   Donate
   © 2025-2029 Earthsky Communications Inc.
   WEbsite by Milkyway.co
   About
   Contact Us
   Terms & PRivacy

   Share to...
   BufferCopyEmailFacebookFlipboardHacker
   NewsLineLinkedInMessengerMixPinterestPocketPrintRedditSMSTelegramTumblr
   XVKWhatsAppXingYummly
