
   (BUTTON) ESA menu toggle (BUTTON) ESA search toggle ESA title
   ESA logo
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   The Doppler effect can be heard, for example, with passing trains
   Science & Exploration

What is 'red shift'?

   551367 views 2025 likes
   ESA / Science & Exploration / Space Science

   'Red shift' is a key concept for astronomers. The term can be
   understood literally - the wavelength of the light is stretched, so the
   light is seen as 'shifted' towards the red part of the spectrum.

   Something similar happens to sound waves when a source of sound moves
   relative to an observer. This effect is called the 'Doppler effect'
   after Christian Andreas Doppler, an Austrian mathematician who
   discovered that the frequency of sound waves changes if the source of
   sound and the observer are moving relative to each other.

   If the two are approaching, then the frequency heard by the observer is
   higher; if they move away from each other, the frequency heard is
   lower.

   There are many everyday examples of the Doppler effect - the changing
   pitch of police and ambulance sirens, or train whistles and racing car
   engines as they pass by. In every case, there is an audible change in
   pitch as the source approaches and then passes an observer.

   Everyone has heard the increased pitch of an approaching police siren
   and the sharp decrease in pitch as the siren passes by and recedes. The
   effect arises because the sound waves arrive at the listener's ear
   closer together as the source approaches, and further apart as it
   recedes.

   Light behaves like a wave, so light from a luminous object undergoes a
   Doppler-like shift if the source is moving relative to us. Ever since
   1929, when Edwin Hubble discovered that the Universe is expanding, we
   have known that most other galaxies are moving away from us. Light from
   these galaxies is shifted to longer (and this means redder) wavelengths
   - in other words, it is 'red-shifted'.

   Since light travels at such a great speed relative to everyday
   phenomena (a million times faster than sound) we do not experience this
   red shift in our daily lives.

   The red shift of a distant galaxy or quasar is easily measured by
   comparing its spectrum with a reference laboratory spectrum. Atomic
   emission and absorption lines occur at well-known wavelengths. By
   measuring the location of these lines in astronomical spectra,
   astronomers can determine the red shift of the receding sources.

   However, to be accurate, the red shifts observed in distant objects are
   not exactly due to the Doppler phenomenon, but are rather a result of
   the expansion of the Universe.

   Doppler shifts arise from the relative motion of source and observer
   through space, whereas astronomical redshifts are 'expansion redshifts'
   due to the expansion of space itself.

   Two objects can actually be stationary in space and still experience a
   red shift if the intervening space itself is expanding.

   A convenient analogy for the expansion of the Universe is a loaf of
   unbaked raisin bread. The raisins are at rest relative to one another
   in the dough before it is placed in the oven. As the bread rises, it
   also expands, making the space between the raisins increase.

   If the raisins could see, they would observe that all the other raisins
   were moving away from them although they themselves were stationary
   within the loaf. Only the dough - their 'Universe' - is expanding.
   (BUTTON) Like

   Thank you for liking

   You have already liked this page, you can only like it once!
   European Space Agency
   FAQ Contacts Terms and conditions Privacy notice Careers at ESA
   Subscribe
