   Education
   Sign In
   (BUTTON) Menu
   Donate

ENCYCLOPEDIC ENTRY

ENCYCLOPEDIC ENTRY

Aurora

Aurora

   An aurora is a natural light display that shimmers in the sky. Auroras
   are only visible at night, and usually only appear in lower polar
   regions.

Grades

   9 - 12+

Subjects

   Earth Science, Astronomy, Geography, Physical Geography, Physics
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   ‌
   NGS Resource Carousel Loading Logo

Loading ...

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Article (BUTTON) Vocabulary

   An aurora is a natural light display that shimmers in the sky. Blue,
   red, yellow, green, and orange lights shift gently and change shape
   like softly blowing curtains. Auroras are only visible at night, and
   usually only appear in lower polar regions.
   Auroras are visible almost every night near the Arctic and Antarctic
   Circles, which are about 66.5 degrees north and south of the Equator.
   In the north, the display is called aurora borealis, or northern
   lights. In the south, it is called aurora australis, or southern
   lights.
   Auroras and the Solar Wind
   The activity that creates auroras begins on the sun. The sun is a ball
   of superhot gases made of electrically charged particles called ions.
   The ions, which continuously stream from the sun’s surface, are called
   the solar wind.
   As solar wind approaches Earth, it meets Earth’s magnetic field.
   Without this magnetic field protecting the planet, the solar wind would
   blow away Earth’s fragile atmosphere, preventing all life. Most of the
   solar wind is blocked by the magnetosphere, and the ions, forced around
   the planet, continue to travel farther into the solar system.
   Although most of the solar wind is blocked by the magnetosphere, some
   of the ions become briefly trapped in ring-shaped holding areas around
   the planet. These areas, in a region of the atmosphere called the
   ionosphere, are centered around Earth’s geomagnetic poles. The
   geomagnetic poles mark the tilted axis of Earth’s magnetic field. They
   lie about 1,300 kilometers (800 miles) from the geographic poles, but
   are slowly moving.
   In the ionosphere, the ions of the solar wind collide with atoms of
   oxygen and nitrogen from Earth’s atmosphere. The energy released during
   these collisions causes a colorful glowing halo around the poles—an
   aurora. Most auroras happen about 97-1,000 kilometers (60-620 miles)
   above Earth’s surface.
   The most active auroras happen when the solar wind is the strongest.
   The solar wind is usually fairly constant, but solar weather—the
   heating and cooling of different parts of the sun—can change daily.

   Solar weather is often measured in sunspots. Sunspots are the coldest
   part of the sun and appear as dark blobs on its white-hot surface.
   Solar flares and coronal mass ejections are associated with sunspots.
   Solar flares and coronal mass ejections are sudden, extra bursts of
   energy in the solar wind. Sunspot activity is tracked over an 11-year
   cycle. Bright, consistent auroras are most visible during the height of
   sunspot activity.
   Some increased activity in the solar wind happens during every equinox.
   These regular fluctuations are known as magnetic storms. Magnetic
   storms can lead to auroras being seen in the midlatitudes during the
   time around the spring and autumnal equinoxes. Auroras have been
   visible as far south as the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico.
   Magnetic storms and active auroras can sometimes interfere with
   communications. They can disrupt radio and radar signals. Intense
   magnetic storms can even disable communication satellites.
   Coloring an Aurora
   The colors of the aurora vary, depending on altitude and the kind of
   atoms involved. If ions strike oxygen atoms high in the atmosphere, the
   interaction produces a red glow. This is an unusual aurora—the most
   familiar display, a green-yellow hue, occurs as ions strike oxygen at
   lower altitudes. Reddish and bluish light that often appears in the
   lower fringes of auroras is produced by ions striking atoms of
   nitrogen. Ions striking hydrogen and helium atoms can produce blue and
   purple auroras, although our eyes can rarely detect this part of the
   electromagnetic spectrum.
   To find out more about the mysterious light displays, scientists have
   launched satellites specially designed to study auroras. Until 2005,
   NASA’s IMAGE (Imager for Magnetopause-to-Aurora Global Exploration)
   satellite used ultraviolet and radio waves to study auroras and how
   they are formed.

   Fast Fact

   Dawn Wind
   The aurora borealis, or northern lights, was studied by ancient Roman
   and Greek astronomers. The phenomenon was named for the Roman goddess
   of the dawn, Aurora, and the Greek god of the north wind, Boreas.

   Fast Fact

   Fox Fire
   In Finland, the aurora borealis is called revontulet, which literally
   translates to fox fires. According to one Finnish folk tale, the lights
   are caused by a magical fox sweeping his tail across the snow and
   sending sparks up into the sky.

Articles & Profiles

   National Geographic Adventure: Solar Storm Headed for Earth Tonight—May
   Spawn AurorasNational Geographic Science: Auroras—Heavenly Lights

Images

   New Aurora Pictures: First Big Show of 2011

Credits

Media Credits

   The audio, illustrations, photos, and videos are credited beneath the
   media asset, except for promotional images, which generally link to
   another page that contains the media credit. The Rights Holder for
   media is the person or group credited.

Writers

   Diane Boudreau
   Melissa McDaniel
   Erin Sprout
   Andrew Turgeon

Illustrators

   Mary Crooks, National Geographic Society
   Tim Gunther, Illustrator

Editors

   Jeannie Evers, Emdash Editing, Emdash Editing
   Kara West

Educator Reviewer

   Nancy Wynne

Producer

   National Geographic Society

other

Last Updated

   October 19, 2023

User Permissions

   For information on user permissions, please read our Terms of Service.
   If you have questions about how to cite anything on our website in your
   project or classroom presentation, please contact your teacher. They
   will best know the preferred format. When you reach out to them, you
   will need the page title, URL, and the date you accessed the resource.

Media

   If a media asset is downloadable, a download button appears in the
   corner of the media viewer. If no button appears, you cannot download
   or save the media.

Text

   Text on this page is printable and can be used according to our Terms
   of Service.

Interactives

   Any interactives on this page can only be played while you are visiting
   our website. You cannot download interactives.

Related Resources

   National Geographic Headquarters
   1145 17th Street NW
   Washington, DC 20036

ABOUT

   National Geographic SocietyNatGeo.comNews and ImpactContact Us

Explore

   Our ExplorersOur ProgramsEducationNat Geo LiveStorytellers
   CollectiveTraveling Exhibitions

Join Us

   Ways to GiveApply for a GrantCareers
   donate
   get updates

Connect

   National Geographic Society is a 501 (c)(3) organization. © 1996 - 2025
   National Geographic Society. All rights reserved.
   Code of Ethics|State Disclosures|Terms of Service|Privacy Notice|Your
   Privacy Choices
