   #alternate

   Skip to main content

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KZDRDJ7

   Home
   flickr Donate (BUTTON) Search

   Home

     * Ocean Life (BUTTON) Ocean Life sub-navigation
          + Marine Mammals
          + Sharks & Rays
          + Reptiles
          + Seabirds
          + Fish
          + Invertebrates
          + Plankton
          + Plants & Algae
          + Microbes
     * Ecosystems (BUTTON) Ecosystems sub-navigation
          + Coral Reefs
          + Deep Sea
          + Coasts & Shallow Water
          + Poles
          + Census of Marine Life
     * Planet Ocean (BUTTON) Planet Ocean sub-navigation
          + Tides & Currents
          + Waves, Storms & Tsunamis
          + The Seafloor
          + Temperature & Chemistry
     * Through Time (BUTTON) Through Time sub-navigation
          + Ancient Seas
          + Extinctions
          + Evolution
          + The Anthropocene
     * Conservation (BUTTON) Conservation sub-navigation
          + Fishing
          + Pollution
          + Habitat Destruction
          + Invasive Species
          + Acidification
          + Climate Change
          + Gulf Oil Spill
          + Solutions & Success Stories
          + Get Involved
     * Human Connections (BUTTON) Human Connections sub-navigation
          + Books, Film & The Arts
          + Recreation
          + Seafood
          + Exploration
          + History & Cultures
          + Careers
     * At The Museum
     * Educators

   (BUTTON)
   Main
   Close

   (BUTTON)

Search

   Try looking up a marine animal, research topic, or information about
   life in the ocean.
   Search _______________
   (Search) Search

   A photo of a squid using bioluminescence to hide in the deep sea.

Bioluminescence

   (BUTTON)
   Sections
   Close
     * Introduction
     * Underwater Light
     * Why Animals Light Up
     * Human Connections

   Breadcrumb
    1. Home
    2. Ocean Life
    3. Fish
    4. Bioluminescence

Introduction

   by The Ocean Portal Team

   Contents
     * Underwater Light
          + How it’s made
          + Who makes it?
          + What Color is Bioluminescence?
     * Why Animals Light Up
          + Feeding
          + Attracting Mates
          + Protection
     * Human Connections
          + Art
          + Science

   You may have seen the sparkle of fireflies on a summer’s night. The
   fireflies produce light through a chemical reaction in their glowing
   abdomens, a process known as bioluminescence. But did you know that
   seascapes can also glow and glitter thanks to the light producing
   abilities of many marine organisms? Some fish dangle a lighted lure in
   front of their mouths to attract prey, while some squid shoot out
   bioluminescent liquid, instead of ink, to confuse their predators.
   Worms and tiny crustaceans also use bioluminescence to attract mates.

   Humans primarily see bioluminescence triggered by a physical
   disturbance, such as waves or a moving boat hull, that gets the animal
   to show their light off, but often animals light up in response to an
   attack or in order to attract a mate. Bioluminescent organisms live
   throughout the water column, from the surface to the seafloor, from
   near the coast to the open ocean. In the deep sea, bioluminescence is
   extremely common, and because the deep sea is so vast, bioluminescence
   may be the most common form of communication on the planet!

Underwater Light

How it’s made

   A photo of a lanternfish with its nasal light organ illuminated.
   This lanternfish (Diaphus sp.), found in the Red Sea, has
   light-producing photophores along its ventral surface (belly), and a
   nasal light organ that acts like a headlight. (E. Widder, ORCA,
   www.teamorca.org)

   Bioluminescence occurs through a chemical reaction that produces light
   energy within an organism's body. For a reaction to occur, a species
   must contain luciferin, a molecule that, when it reacts with oxygen,
   produces light. There are different types of luciferin, which vary
   depending on the animal hosting the reaction. Many organisms also
   produce the catalyst luciferase, which helps to speed up the reaction.

   Animals can closely control when they light up by regulating their
   chemistry and brain processes depending on their immediate needs,
   whether a meal or a mate. Some organisms even bundle the luciferin with
   oxygen in what is called a “photoprotein”—like a pre-packaged
   bioluminescence bomb—that is ready to light up the moment a certain ion
   (typically calcium) becomes present. They can even choose the intensity
   and color of the lights.

Who makes it?

   A photograph of a bright blue-speckeled dinoflagellate bioluminescing
   at night.
   Sunset? Time to glow! A biological clock triggers bioluminescence in
   the dinoflagellate Pyrocystis fusiformis. At dusk, cells produce the
   chemicals responsible for its light. (E. Widder, ORCA,
   www.teamorca.org)

   Bioluminescence is found in many marine organisms: bacteria, algae,
   jellyfish, worms, crustaceans, sea stars, fish, and sharks to name just
   a few. In fish alone, there are about 1,500 known species that
   luminesce. In some cases, animals take in bacteria or other
   bioluminescent creatures to gain the ability to light up. For example,
   the Hawaiian bobtail squid has a special light organ that is colonized
   by bioluminescent bacteria within hours of its birth. But usually, the
   animal itself contains the chemicals necessary for the reaction that
   produces bioluminescence. The number of species that bioluminesce and
   the variations in the chemical reactions that produce light are
   evidence that bioluminescence has evolved many times over—at least 40
   separate times! This number continues to grow as research makes new
   discoveries. In 2018, scientists discovered the ray-finned fishes
   themselves evolved bioluminescence 27 separate times. That's quite an
   increase from the handful of times that were known before.

   Most deep-sea animals produce some bioluminescent light, but the
   phenomenon isn’t relegated to the deep: one of the most common
   sightings occurs at the surface of the ocean. Many small planktonic
   surface dwellers—such as single-celled dinoflagellates—are
   bioluminescent. When conditions are right, dinoflagellates bloom in
   dense layers at the surface of the water, causing the ocean to take on
   a reddish-brown color in daylight and a sparkly sheen as they move in
   the waves at night. When the dinoflagellates are poisonous to other
   animals, these events are called harmful algal blooms (HABs). When
   they're eaten, the toxic dinoflagellates accumulate in high
   concentrations in larger fish and filter feeding shellfish. And then
   when marine mammals or people eat these organisms, it can cause
   sickness or even death.

What Color is Bioluminescence?

   The mauve stinger is a glowing jellyfish.
   The mauve stinger is a glowing jellyfish. (Fco. Javier Gallardo
   Álvarez, Flickr)

   Light travels in waves of different shapes—known as wavelengths—which
   determine the color of the light. When the waves hit our eyes, they are
   translated into colors by the brain depending on their wavelength. The
   wavelengths that our eyes can see are known as the "visible light
   spectrum," and we can see all the colors on this spectrum as they
   travel through the air above land. But light travels differently
   underwater because longer wavelengths can't travel as far. Most of the
   bioluminescence produced in the ocean is in the form of blue-green
   light. This is because these colors are shorter wavelengths of light,
   which can travel through (and thus be seen) in both shallow and deep
   water. Light traveling from the sun of longer wavelengths—such as red
   light—doesn't reach the deep sea. This is why many deep sea animals are
   red: it's effectively the same as being invisible. Moreover, because
   it's not present, many deep-water animals have lost the ability to see
   it altogether. However, some animals evolved to emit and see red light,
   including the dragonfish (Malacosteus). By creating their own red light
   in the deep sea, they are able to see red-colored prey, as well as
   communicate and even show prey to other dragonfish, while other
   unsuspecting animals cannot see their red lights as a warning to flee.

Why Animals Light Up

Feeding

   Photograph of the underside of a gelatinous octopus with a bright
   yellow bioluminescent ring around her mouth.
   The yellow bioluminescent ring on this female octopus may attract
   mates. (Michael Vecchione/NOAA)

   Animals can use their light to lure prey towards their mouths, or even
   to light up the area nearby so that they can see their next meal a bit
   better. Sometimes the prey being lured can be small plankton, like
   those attracted to the bioluminescence around the beak of the
   Stauroteuthis octopus. But the light can also fool larger animals.
   Whales and squid are attracted to the glowing underside of the
   cookie-cutter shark, which grabs a bite out of the animals once they
   are close. The deep-sea anglerfish lures prey straight to its mouth
   with a dangling bioluminescent barbel, lit by glowing bacteria.

Attracting Mates

   Syllid fireworms can be found mainly on the seafloor, but they switch
   to a planktonic form to reproduce, where the females use bioluminescent
   signals.
   Syllid fireworms can be found mainly on the seafloor, but they switch
   to a planktonic form to reproduce, where the females use bioluminescent
   signals. (© 2010 Moorea Biocode)

   Animals don't only need to look for and attract food; bioluminescence
   can also play a part in attracting a mate. The male Caribbean ostracod,
   a tiny crustacean, uses bioluminescent signals on its upper lips to
   attract females. Syllid fireworms live on the seafloor, but with the
   onset of the full moon they move to the open water where the females of
   some species, like Odontosyllis enopla, use bioluminescence to attract
   males while moving around in circles. These glowing worms may have even
   helped to welcome Christopher Columbus to the New World. Anglerfish,
   flashlight fish and ponyfish all are thought to luminesce in order to
   tell the difference between males and females, or otherwise communicate
   in order to mate.

Protection

   This fish is using counterillumination to disappear. At left it stands
   out against the light above it. At right, with bioluminescent
   structures lit, it blends in.
   This fish is using counterillumination to disappear. At left it stands
   out against the light above it. At right, with bioluminescent
   structures lit, it blends in. (Smithsonian Institution)

   Often animals use a strong flash of bioluminescence to scare off an
   impending predator. The bright signal can startle and distract the
   predator and cause confusion about the whereabouts of its target. From
   small copepods to the larger vampire squid, this tactic can be very
   useful in the deep-sea. The "green bomber" worm (Swima bombiviridis)
   and four other similar worm species from the polychaete family release
   a bioluminescent "bomb" from their body when in harms way. These deep
   sea worms live close to the sea bottom and were only discovered in
   2009. Some animals such as the deep-sea squid Octopoteuthis deletron
   even detach their bioluminescent arms, which stick to and probably
   distract their predators. All this commotion could also serve as a
   burglar alarm, attracting larger predators to the scene. In certain
   cases a predator might only get a bite of their prey, and the evidence
   will keep glowing from within its stomach.

   Bioluminescence can also be used to help camouflage with the use of
   counterillumination. Photophores on the bottom side of an animal can
   match the dim light coming from the surface, making it harder for
   predators searching for prey from below to see what they are looking
   for.

Human Connections

Art

   A light painted image of a hand-painted ceramic fish with light
   emitting from its mouth
   Using a photographic technique called light painting, this image
   captures light emitted from a ceramic fish's mouth. (Flickr User
   nickel.media)

   For the animals who bioluminesce, it is a matter of communicating and
   protecting themselves from being eaten or hurt. But for humans, the
   beautiful colors and light that are produced by bioluminescence can be
   works of art.

   A temporary exhibit at the National Museum of Natural History in 2012
   explored these links between art and science. Artist Shih Chieh Huang
   created hanging installations in the dark space of the museum that lit
   up and looked as if they were floating in the deep-sea. Some artists
   use the bacteria itself to create living drawings or entire exhibits
   with petri dishes full of the glowing single-celled organisms.

   You can also make your own bioluminescent art!

Science

   The elusive giant squid
   This still of a giant squid is from the first video filmed of the
   species in its natural habitat. (NHK/NEP/Discovery Channel )

   Bioluminescence can also be used as a tool by researchers to learn more
   about the ocean and its mysteries. Edie Widder, a scientist who
   specializes in bioluminescence, was with a group attempting to film the
   giant squid for the first time. She suspected that the giant squid
   would be lured to a bioluminescent light attached to a fake squid—not
   because it wanted to eat the small fake squid, but because its flashing
   light "burglar alarm" could mean that there was larger prey in the
   vicinity. Her theory proved right. A live giant squid was captured for
   the first time on film in 2012!
   Topics: Fish Invertebrates Plankton Deep Sea
   Tags: Bioluminescence Adaptations Camouflage Fluorescence Defenses
   September 2013

   Home Home
     * Facebook
     * flickr

   Contact Us

Explore

     * Ocean Life
     * Ecosystems
     * Planet Ocean
     * Through Time
     * Conservation
     * Human Connections

     * At the Museum
     * Educators
     * About
     * Media Archive
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy

   Home Donate
